The nation the three-front war At a closed-door session on Capitol Hill last week , Secretary of State Christian Herter made his final report to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on U.S. affairs abroad . 
Afterward , Tennessee 's Democratic Senator Albert Gore summed it up for newsmen . 
What Herter presented , said Gore , was " not a very encouraging review " . 
That was something of an understatement in a week when the underlying conflict between the West and Communism erupted on three fronts . 
While Communists were undermining United Nations efforts to rescue the Congo from chaos , two other Communist offensives stirred the Eisenhower Administration into emergency conferences and serious decisions . 
1 ) Cuba . 
Hours after a parade of his new Soviet tanks and artillery , Dictator Fidel Castro suddenly confronted the U.S. with a blunt and drastic demand : within 48 hours , the U.S. had to reduce its embassy and consulate staffs in Cuba to a total of eleven persons ( the embassy staff alone totaled 87 U.S. citizens , plus 120 Cuban employees ) . 
President Eisenhower held an 8:30 a.m. meeting with top military and foreign-policy advisers , decided to break off diplomatic relations immediately . 
" There is a limit to what the United States in self-respect can endure " , said the President . 
" That limit has now been reached " . 
Through Secretary Herter , Ike offered President-elect Kennedy an opportunity to associate his new Administration with the breakoff decision . 
Kennedy , through Secretary-designate of State Dean Rusk , declined . 
He thus kept his hands free for any action after Jan. 20 , although reaction to the break was generally favorable in the U.S. and Latin America ( see the hemisphere ) . 
2 ) Laos . 
After a White House huddle between the President and top lieutenants , the Defense Department reacted sharply to a cry from the pro-Western government of Laos that several battalions of Communist troops had invaded Laos from North Viet Nam . 
" In view of the present situation in Laos " , said the Pentagon 's announcement , " we are taking normal precautionary actions to increase the readiness of our forces in the Pacific " . 
Cutting short a holiday at Hong Kong , the aircraft carriers Lexington and Bennington steamed off into the South China Sea , accompanied by a swarm of destroyers , plus troopships loaded with marines . 
On the U.S. 's island base of Okinawa , Task Force 116 , made up of Army , Navy , Marine and Air Force units , got braced to move southward on signal . 
But by week 's end the Laotian cry of invasion was read as an exaggeration ( see foreign news ) , and the U.S. was agreeing with its cautious British and French allies that a neutralist -- rather than a pro-Western -- government might be best for Laos . 
French & Indians . 
There was a moral of sorts in the Laotian situation that said much about all other cold-war fronts . 
Political , economic and military experts were all agreed that chaotic , mountainous little Laos was the last place in the world to fight a war -- and they were probably right . 
" It would be like fighting the French and Indian War all over again " , said one military man . 
But why was Laos the new Southeast Asian battleground ? ? 
At Geneva in 1954 , to get the war in Indo-China settled , the British and French gave in to Russian and Communist Chinese demands and agreed to the setting up of a Communist state , North Viet Nam -- which then , predictably , became a base for Communist operations against neighboring South Viet Nam and Laos . 
The late Secretary of State John Foster Dulles considered the 1954 Geneva agreement a specimen of appeasement , saw that resolution would be needed to keep it from becoming a calamity for the West . 
He began the diplomatic discussions that resulted in the establishment of A[fj] . 
" The important thing from now on " , he said , " is not to mourn the past but to seize the future opportunity to prevent the loss in northern Viet Nam from leading to the extension of Communism throughout Southeast Asia " . 
Russian tanks and artillery parading through the streets of Havana , Russian intrigue in the Congo , and Russian arms drops in Laos ( using the same Ilyushin transports that were used to carry Communist agents to the Congo ) made it plain once more that the cold war was all of a piece in space and time . 
Soviet Premier Khrushchev sent New Year 's hopes for peace to President-elect Kennedy , and got a cool acknowledgment in reply . 
Considering the state of the whole world , the cold war 's three exposed fronts did not seem terribly ominous ; ; but , in Senator Gore 's words , it was " not a very encouraging " situation that would confront John F. Kennedy on Inauguration Day . 
The Congress turmoil in the House As the 87th Congress began its sessions last week , liberal Democrats were ready for a finish fight to open the sluice gates controlled by the House Rules Committee and permit the free flow of liberal legislation to the floor . 
The liberal pressure bloc ( which coyly masquerades under the name Democratic Study Group ) had fought the committee before , and had always lost . 
This time , they were much better prepared and organized , and the political climate was favorable . 
They had the unspoken support of President-elect Kennedy , whose own legislative program was menaced by the Rules Committee bottleneck . 
And counting noses , they seemed to have the votes to work their will . 
Deadly deadlock . 
There were two possible methods of breaching the conservative barriers around the Rules Committee : 1 ) to pack it with additional liberals and break the conservative-liberal deadlock , or 2 ) to remove one of the conservatives -- namely Mississippi 's 14-term William Meyers Colmer ( pronounced Calmer ) . 
Caucusing , the liberals decided to go after Colmer , which actually was the more drastic course , since seniority in the House is next to godliness . 
A dour , gangling man with a choppy gait , Colmer looks younger than his 70 years , has gradually swung from a moderate , internationalist position to that of a diehard conservative . 
He is generally and initially suspicious of any federal project , unless it happens to benefit his Gulf Coast constituents . 
He is , of course , a segregationist , but he says he has never made an " anti-Negro " speech . 
For 20 years he has enjoyed his power on the Rules Committee . 
There his vote , along with those of Chairman Howard Smith , the courtly Virginia judge , and the four Republican members , could and often did produce a 6-6 deadlock that blocked far-out , Democratic-sponsored welfare legislation ( a tactic often acceptable to the Rayburn-Johnson congressional leadership to avoid embarrassing votes ) . 
Equal treatment . 
There was sufficient pretext to demand Colmer 's ouster : he had given his lukewarm support to the anti-Kennedy electors in Mississippi . 
Reprisals are not unheard of in such situations , but the recent tendency has been for the Congress to forgive its prodigal sons . 
In 1949 the Dixiecrats escaped unscathed after their 1948 rebellion against Harry Truman , and in 1957 , after Congressman Adam Clayton Powell campaigned for Dwight Eisenhower in 1956 , his fellow Democrats did not touch his committee assignments , although they did strip him temporarily of his patronage . 
( In the heat of the anti-Colmer drive last week , Judge Smith threatened reprisal against Powell . 
Said he : " We will see whether whites and Negroes are treated the same around here " . 
) But Speaker Sam Rayburn , after huddling in Palm Beach with President-elect Kennedy , decided that this year something had to be done about the Rules Committee -- and that he was the only man who could do anything effective . 
In a tense , closed-door session with Judge Smith , Rayburn attempted to work out a compromise : to add three new members to the Rules Committee ( two Democrats , including one Southerner , and one Republican ) . 
Smith flatly rejected the offer , and Mister Sam thereupon decided to join the rebels . 
The next morning he summoned a group of top Democrats to his private office and broke the news : he would lead the fight to oust Colmer , whom he is said to regard as " an inferior man " . 
News of Rayburn 's commitment soon leaked out . 
When Missouri 's Clarence Cannon got the word , he turned purple . 
" Unconscionable " ! ! 
He shouted , and rushed off to the Speaker 's Room to object : " A dangerous precedent " ! ! 
Cannon , a powerful , conservative man , brought welcome support to the Smith-Colmer forces : as chairman of the Appropriations Committee , he holds over each member the dreadful threat of excluding this or that congressional district from federal pork-barrel projects . 
Sitting quietly on an equally big pork barrel was another Judge Smith ally , Georgia 's Carl Vinson , chairman of the Armed Services Committee . 
Threat of war . 
As the battle raged in the cloakrooms and caucuses , it became clear that Judge Smith could lose . 
His highest count of supporters numbered 72 -- and he needed nearly twice that number to control the 260-member Democratic caucus . 
The liberals , smelling blood , were faced with the necessity of winning three big votes -- in the Democratic Committee on Committees , in the full party caucus , and on the floor of the House -- before they could oust Colmer . 
( One big question : If Colmer was to be purged , what should the House do about the other three senior Mississippians who supported the maverick electors ? ? 
) In all three arenas , they seemed certain of victory -- especially with Sam Rayburn applying his whiplash . 
But in the prospect of winning the battle loomed the specter of losing a costlier war . 
If the Southerners were sufficiently aroused , they could very well cut the Kennedy legislative program to ribbons from their vantage point of committee chairmanships , leaving Sam Rayburn leading a truncated , unworkable party . 
With that possibility in mind , Arkansas ' Wilbur Mills deliberately delayed calling a meeting of the Committee on Committees , and coolheaded Democrats sought to bring Rayburn and Smith together again to work out some sort of face-saving compromise . 
" Here are two old men , mad at each other and too proud to pick up the phone " , said a House Democratic leader . 
" One wants a little more power , and the other does n't want to give up any " . 
Battle in the senate The Senate launched the 87th Congress with its own version of an ancient liberal-conservative battle , but in contrast with the House 's guerrilla war it seemed as pro forma as a Capitol guide 's speech . 
Question at issue : How big a vote should be necessary to restrict Senate debate -- and thereby cut off legislation-delaying filibusters ? ? 
A wide-ranging , bipartisan force -- from Minnesota 's Democratic Hubert Humphrey to Massachusetts ' Republican Leverett Saltonstall -- was drawn up against a solid phalanx of Southern Democrats , who have traditionally used the filibuster to stop civil rights bills . 
New Mexico 's Clint Anderson offered a resolution to change the Senate 's notorious Rule 22 to allow three-fifths of the Senators present and voting to cut off debate , instead of the current hard-to-get two-thirds . 
Fair Dealer Humphrey upped the ante , asked cloture power for a mere majority of Senators . 
Georgia 's Dick Russell objected politely , and the battle was joined . 
Privately , the liberals admitted that the Humphrey amendment had no chance of passage . 
Privately , they also admitted that their hopes for Clint Anderson 's three-fifths modification depended on none other than Republican Richard Nixon . 
In 1957 Nixon delivered a significant opinion that a majority of Senators had the power to adopt new rules at the beginning of each new Congress , and that any rules laid down by previous Congresses were not binding . 
Armed with the Nixon opinion , the Senate liberals rounded up their slim majority and prepared to choke off debate on the filibuster battle this week . 
Hopefully , the perennial battle of Rule 22 then would be fought to a settlement once and for all . 
Republicans last act Since Election Day , Vice President Richard Nixon had virtually retired -- by his own wish -- from public view . 
But with the convening of the new Congress , he was the public man again , presiding over the Senate until John Kennedy 's Inauguration . 
One day last week , Nixon faced a painful constitutional chore that required him to officiate at a joint session of Congress to hear the official tally of the Electoral College vote , and then to make " sufficient declaration " of the election of the man who defeated him in the tight 1960 presidential election . 
Nixon fulfilled his assignment with grace , then went beyond the required " sufficient declaration " . 
" This is the first time in 100 years that a candidate for the presidency announced the result of an election in which he was defeated " , he said . 
