When Mickey Charles Mantle , the New York Yankees ' man of muscle , drives a home run 450 feet into the bleachers , his feat touches upon the sublime . 
When Roger Eugene Maris , Mantle 's muscular teammate , powers four home runs in a double-header , his performance merits awe . 
But when tiny , 145-pound Albert Gregory Pearson of the Los Angeles Angels , who once caught three straight fly balls in center field because , as a teammate explained , " the other team thought no one was out there " , hits seven home runs in four months ( three more than his total in 1958 , 1959 , and 1960 ) , his achievement borders on the ridiculous . 
This is Baseball 1961 . 
This is the year home runs ranged from the sublime to the ridiculous . 
It is the year when ( 1 ) amiable Jim Gentile of the Baltimore Orioles ambled to the plate in consecutive innings with the bases loaded and , in unprecedented style , delivered consecutive grand-slam home runs ; ; ( 2 ) Willie Mays of the San Francisco Giants borrowed a teammate 's bat and became the ninth big leaguer to stroke four home runs in a game ; ; ( 3 ) the Milwaukee Braves tied a major-league record with fourteen home runs in three games and lost two of them ; ; and ( 4 ) catcher Johnny Blanchard of the New York Yankees matched a record with home runs in four successive times at bat , two of them as a pinch-hitter . 
Pitchers grumble about lively balls and lively bats , the shrinking strike zone , and the fact that the knock-down pitch is now illegal . 
Experts point to the thinning of pitching talent in the American League caused by expansion . 
Whatever the reasons , not in 30 years has a single season produced such thunderous assaults upon the bureau of baseball records , home-run division . 
Of all the records in peril , one stands apart , dramatic in its making , dramatic in its endurance , and now , doubly dramatic in its jeopardy . 
This , of course , is baseball 's most remarkable mark : The 60 home runs hit in 1927 by the incorrigible epicure , the incredible athlete , George Herman ( Babe ) Ruth of the Yankees . 
Since 1927 , fewer than a dozen men have made serious runs at Babe Ruth 's record and each , in turn , has been thwarted . 
What ultimately frustrated every challenger was Ruth 's amazing September surge . 
In the final month of the 1927 season , he hit seventeen home runs , a closing spurt never matched . 
Double threat : Always , in the abortive attacks upon Ruth 's record , one man alone -- a Jimmy Foxx ( 58 in 1932 ) or a Hank Greenberg ( 58 in 1938 ) or a Hack Wilson ( 56 in 1930 ) -- made the bid . 
But now , for the first time since Lou Gehrig ( with 47 home runs ) spurred Ruth on in 1927 , two men playing for the same team have zeroed in on 60 . 
Their names are Mantle and Maris , their team is the Yankees , and their threat is real . 
After 108 games in 1927 , Ruth had 35 home runs . 
After 108 games in 1961 , Mickey Mantle has 43 , Roger Maris 41 . 
Extend Mantle 's and Maris 's present paces over the full 1961 schedule of 162 games , and , mathematically , each will hit more than 60 home runs . 
This is the great edge the two Yankees have going for them . 
To better Ruth 's mark , neither needs a spectacular September flourish . 
All Mantle needs is eight more home runs in August and ten in September , and he will establish a new record . 
In Ruth 's day -- and until this year -- the schedule was 154 games . 
Baseball commissioner Ford Frick has ruled that Ruth 's record will remain official unless it is broken in 154 games . 
) " Even on the basis of 154 games , this is the ideal situation " , insists Hank Greenberg , now vice-president of the Chicago White Sox . 
" It has to be easier with two of them . 
How can you walk Maris to get to Mantle " ? ? 
Roommates : Neither Mantle nor Maris , understandably , will predict 60 home runs for himself . 
Although both concede they would like to hit 60 , they stick primarily to the baseball player 's standard quote : " The important thing is to win the pennant " . 
But one thing is for certain : There is no dissension between Mantle , the American League 's Most Valuable Player in 1956 and 1957 , and Maris , the MVP in 1960 . 
Each enjoys seeing the other hit home runs ( " I hope Roger hits 80 " , Mantle says ) , and each enjoys even more seeing himself hit home runs ( " and I hope I hit 81 " ) . 
The sluggers get along so well in fact , that with their families at home for the summer ( Mantle 's in Dallas , Maris 's in Kansas City ) , they are rooming together . 
Mantle , Maris , and Bob Cerv , a utility outfielder , share an apartment in Jamaica , Long Island , not far from New York International Airport . 
The three pay $ 251 a month for four rooms ( kitchen , dining room , living room , and bedroom ) , with air-conditioning and new modern furniture . 
Mantle and Cerv use the twin beds in the bedroom ; ; Maris sleeps on a green studio couch in the living room . 
They divide up the household chores : Cerv does most of the cooking ( breakfast and sandwich snacks , with dinner out ) , Mantle supplies the transportation ( a white 1961 Oldsmobile convertible ) , and Maris drives the 25-minute course from the apartment house to Yankee Stadium . 
Mantle , Maris , and Cerv probably share one major-league record already : Among them , they have fifteen children -- eight for Cerv , four for Mantle , and three for Maris . 
As roommates , teammates , and home-run mates , Mantle , 29 , who broke in with the Yankees ten years ago , and Maris , 26 , who came to the Yankees from Kansas City two years ago , have strikingly similar backgrounds . 
Both were scholastic stars in football , basketball , and baseball ( Mantle in Commerce , Okla. , Maris in Fargo , N.D. ) ; ; as halfbacks , both came close to playing football at the University of Oklahoma ( " Sometimes in the minors " , Maris recalls , " I wished I had gone to Oklahoma " ) . 
To an extent , the two even look alike . 
Both have blue eyes and short blond hair . 
Both are 6 feet tall and weigh between 195 and 200 pounds , but Mantle , incredibly muscular ( he has a 17-12-inch neck ) , looks bigger . 
With their huge backs and overdeveloped shoulders , both must have their clothes made to order . 
Maris purchases $ 100 suits from Simpson 's in New York . 
Mantle , more concerned with dress , buys his suits four at a time at Neiman-Marcus in Dallas and pays as much as $ 250 each . 
Light reading : Neither Mantle nor Maris need fear being classified an intellectual , but lately Mantle has shown unusual devotion to an intellectual opus , Henry Miller 's " Tropic of Cancer " . 
Mantle so appreciated Miller 's delicate literary style that he broadened teammates ' minds by reading sensitive passages aloud during road trips . 
Mantle is not normally given to public speaking -- or , for that matter , to private speaking . 
" What do you and Mickey talk about at home " ? ? 
A reporter asked Maris recently . 
" To tell you the truth " , Maris said , " Mickey do n't talk much " . 
This is no surprising trait for a ballplayer . 
What is surprising and pleasant is that Mantle and Maris , under constant pressure from writers and photographers , are trying to be cooperative . 
Of the two , Mantle is by nature the less outgoing , Maris the more outspoken . 
But last week , when a reporter was standing near Mantle 's locker , Mickey walked up and volunteered an anecdote . 
" See that kid " ? ? 
He said , pointing to a dark-haired 11-year-old boy . 
" That 's ( Yogi ) Berra 's . 
I 'll never forget one time I struck out three times , dropped a fly ball , and we lost the game . 
I came back , sitting by my locker , feeling real low , and the kid walks over to me , looks up , and says : ' You stunk ' " . 
Maris , in talking to reporters , tries to answer all questions candidly and fully , but on rare occasions , he shuns newsmen . 
" When I 've made a dumb play " , he says , " I do n't want to talk to anyone . 
I 'm angry " . 
By his own confession , Maris is an angry young man . 
Benched at Tulsa in 1955 , he told manager Dutch Meyer : " I ca n't play for you . 
Send me where I can play " . 
( Meyer sent him to Reading , Pa . 
. 
) Benched at Indianapolis in 1956 , he told manager Kerby Farrell : " I 'm not learning anything on the bench . 
Play me " . 
( Farrell did -- and Maris led the team to victory in the Little World Series . 
) " That 's the way I am " , he says . 
" I tell people what I think . 
If you 're a good ballplayer , you 've got to get mad . 
Give me a team of nine angry men and I 'll give you a team of nine gentlemen and we 'll beat you nine out of ten times " . 
Idols ' idols : One good indication of the two men 's personalities is the way they reacted to meeting their own heroes . 
Maris 's was Ted Williams . 
" When I was a kid " , Maris told a sportswriter last week , " I used to follow Williams every day in the box score , just to see whether he got a hit or not " . 
" When you came up to the majors , did you seek out Williams for advice " ? ? 
" Are you kidding " ? ? 
Said Maris . 
" You 're afraid to talk to a guy you idolize " . 
Mantle 's hero was Joe DiMaggio . 
" When Mickey went to the Yankees " , says Mark Freeman , an ex-Yankee pitcher who sells mutual funds in Denver , " DiMaggio still was playing and every day Mickey would go by his locker , just aching for some word of encouragement from this great man , this hero of his . 
But DiMaggio never said a word . 
It crushed Mickey . 
He told me he vowed right then that if he ever got to be a star , this never would be said of him " . 
Mantle has kept the vow . 
Among all the Yankees , he is the veteran most friendly to rookies . 
Neither Mantle nor Maris is totally devoted to baseball above all else . 
If laying ties on a railroad track , which he once did for $ 1 an hour , paid more than playing right field for the Yankees , Maris would lay ties on a railroad track . 
If working in a zinc mine , which he once did for 87-12 cents an hour , paid more than playing center field for the Yankees , Mantle would work in a zinc mine . 
But since railroading and mining are not the highest paid arts , Mantle and Maris concentrate on baseball . 
They try to play baseball the best they can . 
Each is a complete ballplayer . 
Mantle , beyond any question , can do more things well . 
( " One of the reasons they get along fine " , says a sportswriter who is friendly with the two men , " is that both realize Mantle is head-and-shoulders above Maris " . 
) Hitting , Mantle has an immediate advantage because he bats both left-handed and right-handed , Maris only left-handed . 
They both possess near classic stances , dug in firmly , arms high , set for fierce swings . 
Mantle is considerably better hitting for average ( , fourth in the league , to for Maris so far this year ) . 
Both are good bunters : Maris once beat out eighteen of nineteen in the minor leagues ; ; Mantle is a master at dragging a bunt toward first base . 
Both have brilliant speed : Mantle was timed from home plate ( batting left-handed ) to first base in 3.1 seconds , faster than any other major leaguer ; ; Maris ran the 100-yard dash in ten seconds in high school and once won a race against Luis Aparicio , the swift , base-stealing shortstop of the White Sox . 
Both are good , daring fielders : Mantle covers more ground ; ; Maris 's throwing arm is stronger . 
Yet with all their skills , the appeal of Mantle and Maris in 1961 comes down to one basic : The home run . 
With this ultimate weapon , the two Yankees may have saved baseball from its dullest season . 
( American League expansion created , inevitably , weaker teams . 
Only two teams in each league ( the Yankees and Detroit , the Dodgers and Cincinnati ) are battling for first place . 
Appropriately , the emphasis on the home run , at a peak this year , came into being at baseball 's lowest moment . 
In 1920 , as the startling news that the 1919 White Sox had conspired to lose the World Series leaked out , fans grew disillusioned and disinterested in baseball . 
Something was needed to revive interest ; ; the something was the home run . 
