A cookie with caramel filling and chocolate frosting won $ 25,000 for a Minneapolis housewife in the 13th annual Pillsbury Bake-Off Tuesday . 
Mrs. Alice H. Reese , wife of an engineer and mother of a 23-year-old son , was awarded the top prize at a luncheon in the Beverly Hilton Hotel . 
Mrs. Reese entered 10 past bake-offs before she got into the finals . 
Second grand prize of $ 5,000 went to Mrs. Clara L. Oliver for her Hawaiian coffee ring , a rich yeast bread with coconut filling and vanilla glaze . 
Mother of five Mrs. Oliver is mother of five children and wife of a machinist . 
She lives in Wellsville , Mo .. Mrs. Reese baked her cookies for only the third time in the Bake-off finals . 
And the third time was the charm . 
She dreamed up the cookie recipe , tried it , liked it and entered it in the contest . 
The second baking was for photographing when told she was a finalist . 
The third time was on the floor of the Beverly Hilton ballroom and for the critical eyes and tongues of judges . 
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph R. Bolker will give a dinner on Friday at their home in Beverly Hills to honor Mrs. Norman Chandler , chairman of the Music Center Building Fund Committee , and Mr. Chandler . 
Mr. Bolker heads a group within the building and development industry to raise funds in support of this cultural center for the performing arts . 
A feature of the party will be a presentation by Welton Becket , center architect , of color slides and renderings of the three-building complex . 
Foliage will glow at formal fall party Fall foliage and flowers will decorate Los Angeles Country Club for the annual formal party Saturday evening . 
More than 200 are expected at the autumn event which is matched in the spring . 
Among those with reservations are Messrs. and Mmes. William A. Thompson , Van Cott Niven , A.B. Cox , David Bricker , Samuel Perry and Robert D. Stetson . 
Others are Drs. and Mmes. Alfred Robbins , and J. Lafe Ludwig and Gen. and Mrs. Leroy Watson . 
Guests from across U.S. honor Dr. Swim When Dr. W. A. Swim celebrated his 75th birthday at the Wilshire Country Club , guests came by chartered plane from all over the country . 
A flight originating in Florida picked up guests on the East Coast and Midwest and a plane left from Seattle taking on passengers at West Coast points . 
Cocktails and a buffet supper were served to more than 100 persons who had known Dr. Swim when he practiced in Los Angeles . 
He started practice in 1917 , and served on the State Board of Medical Examiners . 
Giving up the violin opened a whole new career for Ilona Schmidl-Seeberg , a tiny Hungarian who Fritz Kreisler had predicted would have a promising career on the concert stage . 
A heart attack when she was barely 20 put an end to the 10-hour daily practicing . 
She put the violin away and took out some linen , needles and yarn to while away the long , idle days in Budapest . 
Now her modern tapestries have been exhibited on two continents and , at 26 , she feels she is on the threshold of a whole new life in Los Angeles . 
Her days as an art student at the University of Budapest came to a sudden end during the Hungarian uprisings in 1957 and she and her husband Stephen fled to Vienna . 
There they continued their studies at the university , she in art , he in architecture . 
And there she had her first showing of tapestry work . 
There 's a lot of talk about the problem of education in America today . 
What most people do n't seem to realize , if they are n't tied up with the thing as I am , is that 90 % of the problem is transportation . 
I never dreamed of the logistical difficulties involved until , at long last , both of my boys got squeezed into high school . 
It seems like only last year that we watched them set out up the hill hand in hand on a rainy day in their yellow raincoats to finger-paint at the grammar school . 
Getting to and from school was no problem . 
They either walked or were driven . 
Now they go to a high school that is two miles away . 
One might think the problem would be similar . 
They could walk , ride on a bus or be driven . 
It 's much more complex than that . 
Generally , they go to school with a girl named Gloriana , who lives down the block , and has a car . 
This is a way of getting to school , but , I understand , it entails a certain loss of social status . 
A young man does n't like to be driven up in front of a school in a car driven by a girl who is n't even in a higher class than he is , and is also a girl . 
" Why do n't you walk to school then " ? ? 
I suggested . 
" My father walked , through two miles of snow , in Illinois " . 
" Did you " ? ? 
I was asked . 
" No " , I said , " I did n't happen to grow up in Illinois " . 
I explained , however , that I had my share of hardship in making my daily pilgrimage to the feet of wisdom . 
I had to ride a streetcar two miles . 
Sometimes the streetcar was late . 
Sometimes there were n't even any seats . 
I had to stand up , with the ladies . 
Sometimes I got on the wrong car and did n't get to school at all , but wound up at the ocean , or some other dismal place , and had to spend the day there . 
I 've tried to compromise by letting them take the little car now and then . 
When they do that my wife has to drive me to work in the big car . 
She has to have at least one car herself . 
I feel a certain loss of status when I am driven up in front of work in a car driven by my wife , who is only a woman . 
Even that is n't satisfactory . 
If they have to take any car , they 'd rather take the big one . 
They say that when they take a car , Gloriana does n't take her car , but rides with them . 
But when Gloriana rides with them they also have to take the two girls who usually ride with her , so the little car is n't big enough . 
The logic of that is impeccable , of course , except that I feel like a fool being driven up to work in a little car , by my wife , when everybody knows I have a big car and am capable of driving myself . 
The solution , naturally , is the bus . 
However , it 's a half-mile walk down a steep hill from our house to the bus , and it 's too hard on my legs . 
My wife could drive us down the hill and we could all walk from there . 
But that 's hardly realistic . 
Nobody walks anymore but crackpots and Harry Truman , and he 's already got an education . 
Advance publicity on the Los Angeles Blue Book does not mention names dropped as did the notices for the New York Social Register which made news last week . 
Published annually by William Hord Richardson , the 1962 edition , subtitled Society Register of Southern California , is scheduled to arrive with Monday morning 's postman . 
Publisher Richardson has updated the Blue Book " but it still remains the compact reference book used by so many for those ever-changing telephone numbers , addresses , other residences , club affiliations and marriages " . 
Stars for marriage Stars throughout the volume denote dates of marriages during the past year . 
Last two to be added before the book went to press were the marriages of Meredith Jane Cooper , daughter of the Grant B. Coopers , to Robert Knox Worrell , and of Mary Alice Ghormley to Willard Pen Tudor . 
Others are Carla Ruth Craig to Dan McFarland Chandler Jr. ; ; Joanne Curry , daughter of the Ellsworth Currys , to James Hartley Gregg , and Valerie Smith to James McAlister Duque . 
Also noted are the marriages of Elizabeth Browning , daughter of the George L. Brownings , to Austin C. Smith Jr. ; ; Cynthia Flower , daughter of the Ludlow Flowers Jr. , to Todd Huntington , son of the David Huntingtons . 
Pasadena listings Listed as newly wed in the Pasadena section of the new book are Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Moody Haskins 3 . 
She is the former Judy Chapman , daughter of John S. Chapman of this city . 
The young couple live in Pasadena . 
Another marriage of note is that of Jane McAlester and William Louis Pfau . 
Changes in address are noted . 
For instance , the Edwin Pauleys Jr. , formerly of Chantilly Rd. , are now at home on North Arden Dr. in Beverly Hills . 
Mr. and Mrs. Robert Moulton now live on Wilshire and the Franklin Moultons on S. Windsor Blvd .. The Richard Beesemyers , formerly of Connecticut , have returned to Southern California and are now residing on South Arden Blvd .. But the Raoul Esnards have exchanged their residence in Southern California for Mexico City . 
More new addresses Judge and Mrs. Julian Hazard are now at Laguna Beach , while the Frank Wangemans have moved from Beverly Hills to New York , where he is general manager of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel . 
And Lawrence Chase , son of the Ransom Chases , is listed at his new address in Oxford , Eng .. Others listed at new addresses are the Richard T. Olerichs , the Joseph Aderholds Jr. , the Henri De La Chapelles , the John Berteros and Dr. and Mrs. Egerton Crispin , the John Armisteads , the Allen Chases , the Howard Lockies , the Thomas Lockies , and Anthony Longinotti . 
Newcomers of social note from other parts of the country are the Ray Carbones , formerly of Panama ; ; the Geddes MacGregors , formerly of Scotland , and Mr. and Mrs. Werner H. Althaus , formerly of Switzerland . 
Here 's an idea for a child 's room that is easy to execute and is completely charming , using puppets for lamp bases . 
Most children love the animated puppet faces and their flexible bodies , and they prefer to see them as though the puppets were in action , rather than put away in boxes . 
Displayed as lamps , the puppets delight the children and are decorative accent . 
To create such a lamp , order a wired pedestal from any lamp shop . 
Measure the puppet to determine the height of the light socket , allowing three to four inches above the puppet 's head . 
Make sure that the metal tube through which the wire passes is in the shape of an inverted " L " , the foot of the " L " about three inches long , so that the puppet can hang directly under the light . 
Pulling strings Using the strings that manipulate the puppet , suspend him from the light fixture by tying the strings to the lamp base . 
In this way , you can arrange his legs and arms in any desired position , with feet , or one foot , barely resting on the pedestal . 
If the puppets are of uniform size , you can change them in accord with your child 's whims . 
Although a straight drum shade would be adequate and sufficiently neutral that the puppets could be changed without disharmony , it is far more fun to create shades in the gay spirit of a child 's playtime . 
Those illustrated are reminiscent of a circus top or a merry-go-round . 
The scalloped edge is particularly appealing . 
Today 's trend toward furniture designs from America 's past is teaching home-owners and decorators a renewed respect for the shrewd cabinetmakers of our Colonial era . 
A generation ago there were plenty of people who appreciated antiques and fine reproductions . 
In the background lurked the feeling , however , that these pieces , beautiful as they were , lacked the utilitarian touch . 
So junior 's bedroom was usually tricked out with heavy , nondescript pieces that supposedly could take the " hard knocks " , while the fine secretary was relegated to the parlor where it was for show only . 
This is n't true of the many homemakers of the 1960 's , according to decorator consultant , Leland Alden . 
Housewives are finding literally hundreds of ways of getting the maximum use out of traditional designs , says Mr. Alden and they are doing it largely because Colonial craftsmen had " an innate sense of the practical " . 
Solid investment There are a number of reasons why the Eighteenth Century designer had to develop " down to earth " designs -- or go out of business . 
