Holders of toll-road bonds are finding improvements in monthly reports on operation of the turnpikes . 
Long-term trend of traffic on these roads seems clearly upward . 
Higher toll rates also are helping boost revenues . 
Result is a better prospect for a full payoff by bonds that once were regarded as highly speculative . 
Things are looking up these days for many of the State turnpikes on which investors depend for income from their toll-road bonds . 
Traffic on nearly all the turnpikes has been growing . 
That added traffic means rising streams of dimes and quarters at toll gates . 
As a result of the new outlook for turnpikes , investors who bought toll-road bonds when these securities ranked as outright speculations are now finding new hope for their investments . 
Another result is that buyers are tending to bid up the prices of these tax-exempt bonds . 
Other tax-exempt bonds of State and local governments hit a price peak on February 21 , according to Standard & Poor 's average . 
On balance , prices of those bonds have slipped a bit since then . 
However , in the same three-month period , toll-road bonds , as a group , have bucked this trend . 
On these bonds , price rises since February 21 easily outnumber price declines . 
Tax-free returns . 
Investors , however , still see an element of more-than-ordinary risk in the toll-road bonds . 
You find the evidence of that in the chart on this page . 
Many of the toll-road bonds still are selling at prices that offer the prospect of an annual yield of 4 per cent , or very close to that . 
And this is true in the case of some turnpikes on which revenues have risen close to , or beyond , the point at which the roads start to pay all operating costs plus annual interest on the bonds . 
That 4 per cent yield is well below the return to be had on good corporation bonds . 
It 's not much more , in fact , than the return that is offered on U.S. Treasury bonds . 
For investors whose income is taxed at high rates , though , a tax-free yield of 4 per cent is high . 
It is the equivalent of 8 per cent for an unmarried investor with more than $ 16,000 of income to be taxed , or for a married couple with more than $ 32,000 of taxed income . 
Swelling traffic . 
A new report on the earnings records of toll roads in the most recent 12-month period -- ending in February or March -- shows what is happening . 
The report is based on a survey by Blyth & Company , investment bankers . 
Nearly all the turnpikes show gains in net revenues during the period . 
And there is the bright note : The gains were achieved in the face of temporary traffic lags late in 1960 and early in 1961 as a result of business recession . 
Many of the roads also were hit by an unusually severe winter . 
Indication : The long-term trend of turnpike traffic is upward . 
Look , for example , at the Ohio Turnpike . 
Traffic on that road slumped sharply in January and February , as compared with those same months in 1960 . 
Then March brought an 18 per cent rise in net revenues -- after operating costs . 
As a result , the road 's net revenues in the 12 months ending March 31 were 186 per cent of the annual interest payments on the turnpike bonds . 
That was up from 173 per cent in the preceding 12 months . 
That same pattern of earnings shows up on the Massachusetts Turnpike . 
Operating revenues were off in the first three months of 1961 , but up for the 12 months ending in March . 
Costs were held down , despite a bitter winter . 
For the year , the road earned 133 per cent of its interest costs , against 121 per cent in the preceding period . 
The road 's engineers look for further improvement when the turnpike is extended into Boston . 
Slow successes . 
Some turnpikes have not been in full operation long enough to prove what they can do . 
The 187-mile Illinois State Toll Highway , for example , was not opened over its entire length until December , 1958 . 
In the 12 months ended in February , 1960 , the highway earned enough to cover 64 per cent of its interest load -- with the remainder paid out of initial reserves . 
In the 12 months ended in February , 1961 , this highway earned 93 per cent of its interest . 
That improvement is continuing . 
In the first two months of 1961 , earnings of the Illinois highway available for interest payments were up 55 per cent from early 1960 . 
Success , for many turnpikes , has come hard . 
Traffic frequently has failed to measure up to engineers ' rosy estimates . 
In these cases , the turnpike managements have had to turn to toll-rate increases , or to costly improvements such as extensions or better connections with other highways . 
Many rate increases already have been put into effect . 
Higher tolls are planned for July 1 , 1961 , on the Richmond-Petersburg , Va. , Turnpike , and proposals for increased tolls on the Texas Turnpike are under study . 
Easier access . 
Progress is being made , too , in improving motorists ' access to many turnpikes . 
The Kansas Turnpike offers an illustration . 
Net earnings of that road rose from 62 per cent of interest requirements in calendar 1957 to 86 per cent in the 12 months ended Feb. 28 , 1961 . 
Further improvements in earnings of the Kansas Turnpike are expected late in 1961 , with the opening of a new bypass at Wichita , and still later when the turnpike gets downtown connections in both Kansas City , Kans. , and Kansas City , Mo . 
. 
Meanwhile , there appears to be enough money in the road 's reserve fund to cover the interest deficiency for eight more years . 
For some roads , troubles . 
Investors studying the toll-road bonds for opportunities find that not all roads are nearing their goals . 
Traffic and revenues on the Chicago Skyway have been a great disappointment to planners and investors alike . 
If nothing is done , the prospect is that that road will be in default of interest in 1962 . 
West Virginia toll bonds have defaulted in interest for months , and , despite recent improvement in revenues , holders of the bonds are faced with more of the same . 
These , however , are exceptions . 
The typical picture at this time is one of steady improvement . 
It 's going to take time for investors to learn how many of the toll-road bonds will pay out in full . 
Already , however , several of the turnpikes are earning enough to cover interest requirements by comfortable margins . 
Many others are attracting the traffic needed to push revenues up to the break-even point . 
A top American official , after a look at Europe 's factories , thinks the U.S. is in a " very serious situation " competitively . 
Commerce Secretary Luther Hodges , accompanied by a member of our staff , on May 10 toured plants of two of Italy 's biggest companies -- Fiat , the auto producer , and Olivetti , maker of typewriters and calculating machines . 
Our staff man cabled from Turin as follows -- " Follow Secretary Hodges through the Fiat plant , and you learn this : " One , modern equipment -- much of it supplied under the Marshall Plan -- enables Fiat to turn out 2,100 cars a day . 
About half of these are exported . 
" Two , wage costs are a fraction of the U.S. costs . 
A skilled worker on the assembly line , for example , earns $ 37 a week . 
" Three , labor troubles are infrequent . 
Fiat officials say they have had no strikes for more than six years . 
" Said Secretary Hodges : ' It 's a tough combination for the U.S. to face . 
" Olivetti had a special interest for Hodges . 
Olivetti took over Underwood , the U.S. typewriter maker , in late 1959 . 
Within a year , without reducing wages , Underwood 's production costs were cut one third , prices were slashed . 
The result has been that exports of Underwood products have doubled . 
" The Olivetti plant near Turin has modern layout , modern machinery . 
The firm is design-conscious , sales-conscious , advertising-conscious . 
" Hodges is trying to get more foreign business to go to the U.S .. The inflow of foreign capital would help the U.S. balance of payments . 
" Hodges predicted : ' I think we will see more foreign firms coming to the U.S .. There are many places where we can use their vigor and new ideas ' " . 
Foreign competition has become so severe in certain textiles that Washington is exploring new ways of handling competitive imports . 
The recently unveiled Kennedy moves to control the international textile market can be significant for American businessmen in many lines . 
Important aspects of the Kennedy textile plans are these : An international conference of the big textile-importing and textile-exporting countries will be called shortly by President Kennedy . 
Chief aims of the proposed conference are worth noting . 
The U.S. will try to get agreement among the industrialized countries to take more textile imports from the less-developed countries over the years . 
Point is that developing countries often build up a textile industry first , need encouragement to get on their feet . 
If they have trouble exporting , international bill for their support will grow larger than it otherwise would . 
Idea is to let these countries earn their way as much as possible . 
At the same time , another purpose of the conference will be to get certain low-wage countries to control textile exports -- especially dumping of specific products -- to high-wage textile-producing countries . 
Japan , since 1957 , has been " voluntarily " curbing exports of textiles to the U.S .. Hong Kong , India and Pakistan have been limiting exports of certain types of textiles to Britain for several years under the " Lancashire Pact " . 
None of these countries is happy with these arrangements . 
The Japanese want to increase exports to the U.S . 
While they have been curbing shipments , they have watched Hong Kong step in and capture an expanding share of the big U.S. market . 
Hong Kong interests loudly protest limiting their exports to Britain , while Spanish and Portuguese textiles pour into British market unrestrictedly . 
The Indians and Pakistanis are chafing under similar restrictions on the British market for similar reasons . 
The Kennedy hope is that , at the conference or through bilateral talks , the low-wage textile-producing countries in Asia and Europe will see that " dumping " practices cause friction all around and may result in import quotas . 
Gradual , controlled expansion of the world 's textile trade is what President Kennedy wants . 
This may point the way toward international stabilization agreements in other products . 
It 's an important clue to Washington thinking . 
Note , too , that the Kennedy textile plan looks toward modernization or shrinkage of the U.S. textile industry . 
" Get competitive or get out " . 
In veiled terms , that 's what the Kennedy Administration is saying to the American textile industry . 
The Government will help in transferring companies and workers into new lines , where modernization does n't seem feasible . 
Special depreciation on new textile machinery may be allowed . 
Government research will look into new products and methods . 
Import quotas are n't ruled out where the national interest is involved . 
But the Kennedy Administration does n't favor import quotas . 
Rather , they are impressed with the British Government 's success in forcing -- and helping -- the British textile industry to shrink and to change over to other products . 
What 's happening in textiles can be handwriting on the wall for other lines having difficulty competing with imports from low-wage countries . 
Among the highest-paid workers in the world are U.S. coal miners . 
Yet U.S. coal is cheap enough to make foreign steelmakers ' mouths water . 
Steel Company of Wales , a British steelmaker , wants to bring in Virginia coal , cut down on its takings of Welsh coal in order to be able to compete more effectively -- especially in foreign markets . 
Virginia coal , delivered by ship in Wales , will be about $ 2.80 a ton cheaper than Welsh coal delivered by rail from nearby mines . 
U.S. coal is cheap , despite high wages , because of widespread mechanization of mines , wide coal seams , attactive rates on ocean freight . 
Many of the coal seams in the nationalized British mines are twisting , narrow and very deep . 
Productivity of U.S. miners is twice that of the British . 
Welsh coal miners , Communist-led , are up in arms at the suggestion that the steel company bring in American coal . 
They threaten to strike . 
The British Government will have to decide whether to let U.S. coal in . 
The British coal industry is unprofitable , has large coal stocks it ca n't sell . 
