Some of the New York Philharmonic musicians who live in the suburbs spent yesterday morning digging themselves free from snow . 
A tiny handful never did make the concert . 
But , after a fifteen-minute delay , the substantially complete Philharmonic assembled on stage for the afternoon 's proceedings . 
They faced a rather small audience , as quite a few subscribers apparently had decided to forego the pleasures of the afternoon . 
It was an excellent concert . 
Paul Paray , rounding out his current stint with the orchestra , is a solid musician , and the Philharmonic plays for him . 
Their collaboration in the Beethoven Second Symphony was lucid , intelligent and natural sounding . 
It was not a heavy , ponderous Beethoven . 
The music sang nicely , sprinted evenly when necessary , was properly accented and balanced . 
The Franck symphonic poem , " Psyche " , is a lush , sweet-sounding affair that was pleasant to encounter once again . 
Fortunate for the music itself , it is not too frequent a visitor ; ; if it were , its heavily chromatic harmonies would soon become cloying . 
Mr. Paray resisted the temptation to over-emphasize the melodic elements of the score . 
He did not let the strings , for instance , weep , whine or get hysterical . 
His interpretation was a model of refinement and accuracy . 
And in the Prokofieff C major Piano Concerto , with Zadel Skolovsky as soloist , he was an admirable partner . 
Mr. Skolovsky 's approach to the concerto was bold , sweeping and tonally percussive . 
He swept through the music with ease , in a non-sentimental and ultra-efficient manner . 
An impressive technician , Mr. Skolovsky has fine rhythm , to boot . 
His tone is the weakest part of his equipment ; ; it tends to be hard and colorless . 
A school of thought has it that those attributes are exactly what this concerto needs . 
It is , after all , a non-romantic work ( even with the big , juicy melody of the second movement ) ; ; and the composer himself was called the " age of steel pianist " . 
But granted all this , one still would have liked to have heard a little more tonal nuance than Mr. Skolovsky supplied . 
Taken as a whole , though , it was a strong performance from both pianist and orchestra . 
Mr. Skolovsky fully deserved the warm reception he received . 
A new work on the program was Nikolai Lopatnikoff 's " Festival Overture " , receiving its first New York hearing . 
This was composed last year as a salute to the automobile industry . 
It is not program music , though . 
It runs a little more than ten minutes , is workmanlike , busy , methodical and featureless . 
" La Gioconda " , like it or not , is a singer 's opera . 
And so , of course , it is a fan 's opera as well . 
Snow or no , the fans were present in force at the Metropolitan Opera last night for a performance of the Ponchielli work . 
So the plot creaks , the sets are decaying , the costumes are pre-historic , the orchestra was sloppy and not very well connected with what the singers were doing . 
After all , the opera has juicy music to sing and the goodies are well distributed , with no less than six leading parts . 
One of those parts is that of evil , evil Barnaba , the spy . 
His wicked deeds were carried on by Anselmo Colzani , who was taking the part for the first time with the company . 
He has the temperament and the stage presence for a rousing villain and he sang with character and strong tone . 
What was lacking was a real sense of phrase , the kind of legato singing that would have added a dimension of smoothness to what is , after all , a very oily character . 
Regina Resnik as Laura and Cesare Siepi as Alvise also were new to the cast , but only with respect to this season ; ; they have both sung these parts here before . 
Laura is a good role for Miss Resnik , and she gave it force , dramatic color and passion . 
Mr. Siepi was , as always , a consummate actor ; ; with a few telling strokes he characterized Alvise magnificently . 
Part of this characterization was , of course , accomplished with the vocal chords . 
His singing was strong and musical ; ; unfortunately his voice was out of focus and often spread in quality . 
Eileen Farrell in the title role , Mignon Dunn as La Cieca and Richard Tucker as Enzo were holdovers from earlier performances this season , and all contributed to a vigorous performance . 
If only they and Fausto Cleva in the pit had got together a bit more . 
" Melodious birds sing madrigals " saith the poet and no better description of the madrigaling of the Deller Consort could be imagined . 
Their Vanguard album Madrigal Masterpieces ( BG 609 ; ; stereo BGS 5031 ) is a good sample of the special , elegant art of English madrigal singing . 
It also makes a fine introduction to the international art form with good examples of Italian and English madrigals plus several French " chansons " . 
The English have managed to hold onto their madrigal tradition better than anyone else . 
The original impulses came to England late ( in the sixteenth century ) and continue strong long after everyone else had gone on to the baroque basso continuo , sonatas , operas and the like . 
Even after Elizabethan traditions were weakened by the Cromwellian interregnum , the practice of singing together -- choruses , catches and glees -- always flourished . 
The English never again developed a strong native music that could obliterate the traces of an earlier great age the way , say , the opera in Italy blotted out the Italian madrigal . 
Early interest Latter-day interest in Elizabethan singing dates well back into the nineteenth century in England , much ahead of similar revivals in other countries . 
As a result no comparable literature of the period is better known and better studied nor more often performed than the English madrigal . 
Naturally , Mr. Deller and the other singers in his troupe are most charming and elegant when they are squarely in their tradition and singing music by their countrymen : William Byrd , Thomas Morley and Thomas Tomkins . 
There is an almost instrumental quality to their singing , with a tendency to lift out important lines and make them lead the musical texture . 
Both techniques give the music purity and clarity . 
Claude Jannequin 's vocal description of a battle ( the French equivalents of tarantara , rum-tum-tum , and boom-boom-boom are very picturesque ) is lots of fun , and the singers get a sense of grace and shape into other chansons by Jannequin and Lassus . 
Only with the more sensual , intense and baroque expressions of Marenzio , Monteverdi and Gesualdo does the singing seem a little superficial . 
Nevertheless , the musicality , accuracy and infectious charm of these performances , excellently reproduced , make it an attractive look-see at the period . 
The works are presented chronologically . 
Texts and translations are provided . 
Elegance and color The elements of elegance and color in Jannequin are strong French characteristics . 
Baroque instrumental music in Italy and Germany tends to be strong , lively , intense , controlled and quite abstract . 
In France , it remained always more picturesque , more dancelike , more full of flavor . 
Couperin and Rameau gave titles to nearly everything they wrote , not in the later sense of " program music " but as a kind of nonmusical reference for the close , clear musical forms filled with keen wit and precise utterance . 
Both composers turn up on new imports from France . 
BAM is the unlikely name of a French recording company whose full label is Editions De La boite A Musique . 
They specialize in out-of-the-way items and old French music naturally occupies a good deal of their attention . 
Sonates et Concerts Royaux of Couperin Le Grand occupy two disks ( LD056 and LD060 ) and reveal the impeccable taste and workmanship of this master -- delicate , flexible and gemlike . 
The Concerts -- nos. 2 , 6 , 9 , 10 and 14 are represented -- are really closer to chamber suites than to concertos in the Italian sense . 
The sonatas , " La Francaise " , " La Sultane " , " L'Astree " and " L'Imperiale " , are often more elaborately worked out and , in fact , show a strong Italian influence . 
Couperin also turns up along with some lesser-known contemporaries on a disk called Musique Francaise Du 18e Siecle ( BAM LD 060 ) . 
Jean-Marie LeClair still is remembered a bit , but Bodin De Beismortier , Corrette and Mondonville are hardly household words . 
What is interesting about these chamber works here is how they all reveal the aspect of French music that was moving toward the rococo . 
The Couperin " La Steinkerque " , with its battle music , brevity , wit and refined simplicity , already shakes off Corelli and points towards the mid-century elegances that ended the baroque era . 
If Couperin shows the fashionable trend , the others do so all the more . 
All these records have close , attractive sound and the performances by a variety of instrumentalists is characteristic . 
Rameau 's Six Concerts En Sextuor , recorded by L'orchestre De Chambre Pierre Menet ( BAM LD 046 ) , turn out to be harpsichord pieces arranged for strings apparently by the composer himself . 
The strange , delightful little character pieces with their odd and sometimes inexplicable titles are still evocative and gracious . 
Maitres Allemands Des 17e et 18e Siecles contains music by Pachelbel , Buxtehude , Rosenmueller and Telemann , well performed by the Ensemble Instrumental Sylvie Spycket ( BAM LD 035 ) . 
Rococo music -- a lot of it -- was played in Carnegie Recital Hall on Saturday night in the first of four concerts being sponsored this season by a new organization known as Globe Concert Arts . 
Works by J.C. Bach , Anton Craft , Joseph Haydn , Giuseppe Sammartini , Comenico Dragonetti and J.G. Janitsch were performed by seven instrumentalists including Anabel Brieff , flutist , Josef Marx , oboist , and Robert Conant , pianist and harpsichordist . 
Since rococo music tends to be pretty and elegant above all , it can seem rather vacuous to twentieth-century ears that have grown accustomed to the stress and dissonances of composers from Beethoven to Boulez . 
Thus there was really an excess of eighteenth-century charm as one of these light-weight pieces followed another on Saturday night . 
Each might find a useful place in a varied musical program , but taken together they grew quite tiresome . 
The performances were variable , those of the full ensemble being generally satisfying , some by soloists proving rather trying . 
Ellie Mao , soprano , and Frederick Fuller , baritone , presented a program of folksongs entitled " East Meets West " in Carnegie Recital Hall last night . 
They were accompanied by Anna Mi Lee , pianist . 
Selections from fifteen countries were sung as solos and duets in a broad range of languages . 
Songs from China and Japan were reserved exclusively for Miss Mao , who is a native of China , and those of the British Isles were sung by Mr. Fuller , who is English by birth . 
This was not a program intended to illustrate authentic folk styles . 
On the contrary , Miss Mao and Mr. Fuller chose many of their arrangements from the works of composers such as Mendelssohn , Dvorak , Canteloube , Copland and Britten . 
There was , therefore , more musical substance in the concert than might have been the case otherwise . 
The performances were assured , communicative and pleasingly informal . 
What was omitted from " A Neglected Education " were those essentials known as " the facts of life " . 
Chabrier 's little one-act operetta , presented yesterday afternoon at Town Hall , is a fragile , precious little piece , very French , not without wit and charm . 
The poor uneducated newlywed , a certain Gontran De Boismassif , has his problems in getting the necessary information . 
The humor of the situation can be imagined . 
It all takes place in the eighteenth century . 
What a silly , artificial way of life , Chabrier and his librettists chuckle . 
But they wish they could bring it back . 
Chabrier 's delightful music stands just at the point where the classical , rationalist tradition , ( handed down to Chabrier largely in the form of operetta and salon music ) becomes virtually neo-classicism . 
The musical cleverness and spirit plus a strong sense of taste and measure save a wry little joke from becoming either bawdy or mawkish . 
The simple , clever production was also able to tread the thin line between those extremes . 
Arlene Saunders was charming as poor Gontran . 
Yes , Arlene is her name ; ; the work uses the old eighteenth-century tradition of giving the part of a young inexperienced youth to a soprano . 
Benita Valente was delightful as the young wife and John Parella was amusing as the tutor who failed to do all his tutoring . 
The work was presented as the final event in the Town Hall Festival of Music . 
It was paired with a Darius Milhaud opera , " The Poor Sailor " , set to a libretto by Jean Cocteau , a kind of Grand Guignol by the sea , a sailor returns , unrecognized , and gets done in by his wife . 
With the exception of a few spots , Milhaud 's music mostly churns away with his usual collection of ditties , odd harmonies , and lumbering , satiric orchestration . 
