Francois D'Albert , Hungarian-born violinist who made his New York debut three years ago , played a return engagement last night in Judson Hall . 
He is now president of the Chicago Conservatory College . 
His pianist was Donald Jenni , a faculty member at DePaul University . 
The acoustics of the small hall had been misgauged by the artists , so that for the first half of the program , when the piano was partially open , Mr. Jenni 's playing was too loud . 
In vying with him , Mr. D'Albert also seemed to be overdriving his tone . 
This was not an overriding drawback to enjoyment of the performances , however , except in the case of the opening work , Mozart 's Sonata in A ( K. 526 ) , which clattered along noisily in an unrelieved fashion . 
Brahm 's Sonata in A , although also vigorous , stood up well under the two artists ' strong , large-scale treatment . 
Mr. D'Albert has a firm , attractive tone , which eschews an overly sweet vibrato . 
He made the most of the long Brahmsian phrases , and by the directness and drive of his playing gave the work a handsome performance . 
A Sonata For Violin And Piano , called " Bella Bella " , by Robert Fleming , was given its first United States performance . 
The title refers to the nickname given his wife by the composer , who is also a member of the National Film Board of Canada . 
The work 's two movements , one melodically sentimental , the other brightly capricious , are clever enough in a Ravel-like style , but they rehash a wornout idiom . 
They might well indicate conjugal felicity , but in musical terms that smack of Hollywood . 
Works by Dohnanyi , Hubay , Mr. D'Albert himself and Paganini , indicated that the violinist had some virtuoso fireworks up his sleeve as well as a reserved attitude toward a lyric phrase . 
Standard items by Sarasate and Saint-Saens completed the program . 
In recent years Anna Xydis has played with the New York Philharmonic and at Lewisohn Stadium , but her program last night at Town Hall was the Greek-born pianist 's first New York recital since 1948 . 
Miss Xydis has a natural affinity for the keyboard , and in the twenty years since her debut here she has gained the authority and inner assurance that lead to audience control . 
And the tone she commands is always beautiful in sound . 
Since she also has considerable technical virtuosity and a feeling for music in the romantic tradition , Miss Xydis gave her listeners a good deal of pleasure . 
She played with style and a touch of the grand manner , and every piece she performed was especially effective in its closing measures . 
The second half of her program was devoted to Russian composers of this century . 
It was in them that Miss Xydis was at her best . 
The Rachmaninoff Prelude No. 12 , Op. 32 , for instance , gave her an opportunity to exploit one of her special facilities -- the ability to produce fine deep-sounding bass tones while contrasting them simultaneously with fine silver filagree in the treble . 
The four Kabalevsky Preludes were also assured , rich in color and songful . 
And the Prokofieff Seventh Sonata had the combination of romanticism and modern bravura that Prokofieff needs . 
Miss Xydis ' earlier selections were Mendelssohn 's Variations Serieuses , in which each variation was nicely set off from the others ; ; Haydn 's Sonata in E minor , which was unfailingly pleasant in sound , and Chopin 's Sonata in B flat minor . 
A memory lapse in the last somewhat marred the pianist 's performance . 
So , what was the deepest music on her program had the poorest showing . 
Miss Xydis was best when she did not need to be too probing . 
All the generals who held important commands in World War 2 , did not write books . 
It only seems as if they did . 
And the best books by generals were not necessarily the first ones written . 
One of the very best is only now published in this country , five years after its first publication in England . 
It is " Defeat Into Victory " , by Field Marshal Viscount Slim . 
A long book heavily weighted with military technicalities , in this edition it is neither so long nor so technical as it was originally . 
Field Marshal Slim has abridged it for the benefit of " those who , finding not so great an attraction in accounts of military moves and counter-moves , are more interested in men and their reactions to stress , hardship and danger " . 
The man whose reactions and conclusions get the most space is , of course , the Field Marshal himself . 
William Joseph Slim , First Viscount Slim , former Governor General of Australia , was the principal British commander in the field during the Burma War . 
He had been a corps commander during the disastrous defeat and retreat of 1942 when the ill-prepared , ill-equipped British forces " were outmaneuvered , outfought and outgeneraled " . 
He returned in command of an international army of Gurkhas , Indians , Africans , Chinese and British . 
And in a series of bitterly fought battles in the jungles and hills and along the great rivers of Burma he waged one of the most brilliant campaigns of the war . 
" The Forgotten War " his soldiers called the Burma fighting because the war in Africa and Europe enjoyed priorities in equipment and in headlines . 
Parts of " Defeat Into Victory " are a tangle of Burmese place names and military units , but a little application makes everything clear enough . 
On the whole this is an interesting and exceptionally well-written book . 
Field Marshal Slim is striking in description , amusing in many anecdotes . 
He has a pleasant sense of humor and is modest enough to admit mistakes and even " a cardinal error " . 
He praises many individuals generously . 
He himself seems to be tough , tireless , able and intelligent , more intellectual and self-critical than most soldiers . 
Remaking an army to win " Defeat Into Victory " is a dramatic and lively military narrative . 
But it is most interesting in its account of the unending problems of high command , of decisions and their reasons , of the myriad matters that demand attention in addition to battle action . 
Before he could return to Burma , Field Marshal Slim had to rally the defeated remnants of a discouraged army and unite them with fresh recruits . 
His remarks about training , discipline , morale , leadership and command are enlightening . 
He believed in making inspiring speeches and he made a great many . 
He believed in being seen near the front lines and he was there . 
For general morale reasons and to encourage the efforts of his supply officers , when food was short for combat troops he cut the rations of his headquarters staff accordingly . 
Other crucial matters required constant supervision : labor and all noncombatant troops , whose morale was vital , too ; ; administrative organization and delicate diplomatic relations with Top Brass -- British , American and Chinese ; ; health , hygiene , medical aid and preventive medicine ; ; hospitals ( inadequate ) and nurses ( scanty ) ; ; food and military supplies ; ; logistics and transport ; ; airdrops and airstrips ; ; roads and river barges to be built . 
Expected of a commander Commenting on these and other matters , Field Marshal Slim makes many frank and provocative remarks : " When in doubt as to two courses of action , a general should choose the bolder " . 
" The commander has failed in his duty if he has not won victory -- for that is his duty " . 
" It only does harm to talk to troops about new and desirable equipment which others may have but which you can not give them . 
It depresses them . 
So I made no mention of air transport until we could get at least some of it " . 
Field Marshal Slim is more impressed by the courage of Japanese soldiers than he is by the ability of their commanders . 
Of the Japanese private he says : " He fought and marched till he died . 
If 500 Japanese were ordered to hold a position , we had to kill 495 before it was ours -- and then the last five killed themselves " . 
Brooding about future wars , the Field Marshal has this to say : " The Asian fighting man is at least equally brave ( as the white ) , usually more careless of death , less encumbered by mental doubts , less troubled by humanitarian sentiment , and not so moved by slaughter and mutilation around him . 
He is , by background and living standards , better fitted to endure hardship uncomplainingly , to demand less in the way of subsistence or comfort , and to look after himself when thrown on his own resources " . 
A bunch of young buckaroos from out West , who go by the name of Texas Boys Choir , loped into Town Hall last night and succeeded in corralling the hearts of a sizable audience . 
Actually , the program they sang was at least two-thirds serious and high-minded , and they sang it beautifully . 
Under the capable direction of the choir 's founder , Geroge Bragg , the twenty-six boys made some lovely sounds in an opening group of Renaissance and Baroque madrigals and motets , excerpts from Pergolesi 's " Stabat Mater " and all of the Britten " Ceremonial Of Carols " . 
Their singing was well-balanced , clear and , within obvious limitations , extremely pleasing . 
The limitations are those one expects from untrained and unsettled voices -- an occasional shrillness of almost earsplitting intensity , an occasional waver and now and then a bleat . 
But Mr. Bragg is a remarkably gifted conductor , and the results he has produced with his boys are generally superior . 
Most surprising of all , he has accomplished some prodigies in training for the production of words . 
The Latin , for example , was not only clear ; ; it was even beautiful . 
Furthermore , there were solid musical virtues in the interpretation of the music . 
Lines came out neatly and in good balance . 
Tempos were lively . 
The piano accompaniments by Istvan Szelenyi were stylish . 
A boy soprano named Dixon Boyd sang a Durante solo motet and a few other passages enchantingly . 
Other capable soloists included David Clifton , Joseph Schockler and Pat Thompson . 
The final group included folk songs from back home , stomped out , shouted and chanted with irresistible spirit and in cowboy costume . 
Boys will be boys , and Texans will be Texans . 
The combination proved quite irresistible last night . 
The Polish song and dance company called Mazowsze , after the region of Poland , where it has its headquarters , opened a three-week engagement at the City Center last night . 
A thoroughly ingratiating company it is , and when the final curtain falls you may suddenly realize that you have been sitting with a broad grin on your face all evening . 
Not that it is all funny , by any means , though some of it is definitely so , but simply that the dancers are young and handsome , high-spirited and communicative , and the program itself is as vivacious as it is varied . 
There is no use at all in trying to follow it dance by dance and title by title , for it has a kind of nonstop format , and moves along in an admirable continuity that demands no pauses for identification . 
The material is all basically of folk origin , gleaned from every section of Poland . 
But under the direction of Mira Ziminska-Sygietynska , who with her late husband founded the organization in 1948 , it has all been put into theatrical form , treated selectively , choreographed specifically for presentation to spectators , and performed altogether professionally . 
Under the surface of the wide range of folk movements is apparent a sound technical ballet training , and an equally professional sense of performing . 
Since the organization was created thirteen years ago , it is obvious that this is not the original company ; ; it is more likely the sons and daughters of that company . 
The girls are charming children and the men are wonderfully vital and engaging youngsters . 
The stage is constantly full of them ; ; indeed , there are never fewer than eight of them on stage , and that is only for the more intimate numbers . 
They can be exuberant or sentimental , flirtatious or funny , but the only thing they seem unable to be is dull . 
To pick out particular numbers is something of a problem , but one or two identifiable items are too conspicuously excellent to be missed . 
There is , for example , a stunning Krakowiak that closes the first act ; ; the mazurka choreographed by Witold Zapala to music from Moniuszko 's opera , " Strasny Dwor ' , may be the most beautiful mazurka you are likely ever to see ; ; there is an enchanting polonaise ; ; and the dances and songs from the Tatras contain a magnificent dance for the men . 
Everywhere there are little touches of humor , and the leader of the on-stage band of musicians is an ebullient comedian who plays all sorts of odd instruments with winning warmth . 
