The superb intellectual and spiritual vitality of William James was never more evident than in his letters . 
Here was a man with an enormous gift for living as well as thinking . 
To both persons and ideas he brought the same delighted interest , the same open-minded relish for what was unique in each , the same discriminating sensibility and quicksilver intelligence , the same gallantry of judgment . 
For this latest addition to the Great Letters Series , under the general editorship of Louis Kronenberger , Miss Hardwick has made a selection which admirably displays the variety of James 's genius , not to mention the felicities of his style . 
And how he could write ! ! 
His famous criticism of brother Henry 's " third style " is surely as subtly , even elegantly , worded an analysis of the latter 's intricate air castles as Henry himself could ever have produced . 
His letter to his daughter on the pains of growing up is surely as trenchant , forthright , and warmly understanding a piece of advice as ever a grown-up penned to a sensitive child , and with just the right tone of unpatronizing good humor . 
Most of all , his letters to his philosophic colleagues show a magnanimity as well as an honesty which help to explain Whitehead 's reference to James as " that adorable genius " . 
Miss Hardwick speaks of his " superb gift for intellectual friendship " , and it is certainly a joy to see the intellectual life lived so free from either academic aridity or passionate dogmatism . 
This is a virtue of which we have great need in a society where there seems to be an increasing lack of communication -- or even desire for communication -- between differing schools of thought . 
It holds an equally valuable lesson for a society where the word " intellectual " has become a term of opprobrium to millions of well-meaning people who somehow imagine that it must be destructive of the simpler human virtues . 
To his Harvard colleague , Josiah Royce , whose philosophic position differed radically from his own , James could write , " Different as our minds are , yours has nourished mine , as no other social influence ever has , and in converse with you I have always felt that my life was being lived importantly " . 
Of another colleague , George Santayana , he could write : " The great event in my life recently has been the reading of Santayana 's book . 
Although I absolutely reject the Platonism of it , I have literally squealed with delight at the imperturbable perfection with which the position is laid down on page after page " . 
Writing to his colleague George Herbert Palmer -- " Glorious old Palmer " , as he addresses him -- James says that if only the students at Harvard could really understand Royce , Santayana , Palmer , and himself and see that their varying systems are " so many religions , ways of fronting life , and worth fighting for " , then Harvard would have a genuine philosophic universe . 
" The best condition of it would be an open conflict and rivalry of the diverse systems . 
The world might ring with the struggle , if we devoted ourselves exclusively to belaboring each other " . 
The " belaboring " is of course jocular , yet James was not lacking in fundamental seriousness -- unless we measure him by that ultimate seriousness of the great religious leader or thinker who stakes all on his vision of God . 
To James this vision never quite came , despite his appreciation of it in others . 
But there is a dignity and even a hint of the inspired prophet in his words to one correspondent : " You ask what I am going to ' reply ' to Bradley . 
But why need one reply to everything and everybody ? ? 
I think that readers generally hate minute polemics and recriminations . 
All polemic of ours should , I believe , be either very broad statements of contrast , or fine points treated singly , and as far as possible impersonally . 
As far as the rising generation goes , why not simply express ourselves positively , and trust that the truer view quietly will displace the other . 
Here again ' God will know his own ' " . 
The collected works of James Thurber , now numbering 25 volumes ( including the present exhibit ) represent a high standard of literary excellence , as every schoolboy knows . 
The primitive-eclogue quality of his drawings , akin to that of graffiti scratched on a cave wall , is equally well known . 
About all that remains to be said is that the present selection , most of which appeared first in The New Yorker , comprises ( as usual ) a slightly unstrung necklace , held together by little more than a slender thread cunningly inserted in the spine of the book . 
The one unifying note , if any , is sounded in the initial article entitled : " How To Get Through The Day " . 
It is repeated at intervals in some rather sadly desperate word-games for insomniacs , the hospitalized , and others forced to rely on inner resources , including ( in the P 's alone ) " palindromes " , " paraphrases " , and " parodies " . 
" The Tyranny Of Trivia " suggests arbitrary alphabetical associations to induce slumber . 
And new vistas of hairshirt asceticism are opened by scholarly monographs entitled : " Friends , Romans , Countrymen , Lend Me Your Ear-Muffs " , " Such a Phrase as Drifts Through Dream " , and " The New Vocabularianism " . 
Some of Thurber 's curative methods involve strong potions of mixed metaphor , malapropism , and gobbledygook and are recommended for use only in extreme cases . 
A burlesque paean entitled : " Hark The Herald Tribune , Times , And All The Other Angels Sing " brilliantly succeeds in exaggerating even motion-picture ballyhooey . 
" How The Kooks Crumble " features an amusingly accurate take-off on sneaky announcers who attempt to homogenize radio-TV commercials , and " The Watchers Of The Night " is a veritable waking nightmare . 
A semi-serious literary document entitled " The Wings Of Henry James " is noteworthy , if only for a keenly trenchant though little-known comment on the master 's difficult later period by modest Owen Wister , author of " The Virginian " . 
James , he remarks in a letter to a friend , " is attempting the impossible namely , to produce upon the reader , as a painting produces upon the gazer , a number of superimposed , simultaneous impressions . 
He would like to put several sentences on top of each other so that you could read them all at once , and get all at once , the various shadings and complexities " . 
Equally penetrating in its fashion is the following remark by a lady in the course of a literary conversation : " So much has already been written about everything that you ca n't find out anything about it " . 
Or the mildly epigrammatic utterance ( also a quotation ) : " Woman 's place is in the wrong " . 
Who but Thurber can be counted on to glean such nectareous essences ? ? 
A tribute to midsummer " bang-sashes " seems terribly funny , though it would be hard to explain why . 
" One of them banged the sash of the window nearest my bed around midnight in July and I leaped out of sleep and out of bed . 
' It 's just a bat ' , said my wife reassuringly , and I sighed with relief . 
' Thank God for that ' , I said ; ; ' I thought it was a human being ' " . 
In a sense , perhaps , Thurber is indebted artistically to the surrealist painter ( was it Salvador Dali ? ? 
) who first conceived the startling fancy of a picture window in the abdomen . 
That is , it is literally a picture window : you do n't see into the viscera ; ; you see a picture -- trees , or flowers . 
This is something like what Thurber 's best effects are like , if I am not mistaken . 
Though no longer able to turn out his protoplasmic pen-and-ink sketches ( several old favorites are scattered through the present volume ) Thurber has retained unimpaired his vision of humor as a thing of simple , unaffected humanness . 
In his concluding paragraph he writes : " The devoted writer of humor will continue to try to come as close to truth as he can " . 
For many readers Thurber comes closer than anyone else in sight . 
The latest Low is a puzzler . 
The master 's hand has lost none of its craft . 
He is at his usual best in exposing the shams and self-deceptions of political and diplomatic life in the fifties . 
The reader meets a few old friends like Blimp and the TUC horse , and becomes better acquainted with new members of the cast of characters like the bomb itself , and civilization in her classic robe watching the nuclear arms race , her hair standing straight out . 
But there is a difference between the present volume and the early Low . 
There is fear in the fifties as his title suggests and as his competent drawings show . 
But there was terror in the thirties when the Nazis were on the loose and in those days Low struck like lightning . 
Anyone can draw his own conclusions from this difference . 
It might be argued that the Communists are less inhuman than the Nazis and furnish the artist with drama in a lower key . 
But this argument can not be pushed very far because the Communist system makes up for any shortcomings of its leaders in respect to corrosion . 
The Communists wield a power unknown to Hitler . 
And the leading issue , that of piecemeal aggression , remains the same . 
This is drama enough . 
Do we ourselves offer Mr. Low less of a crusade ? ? 
In the thirties we would not face our enemy ; ; that was a nightmarish situation and Low was in his element . 
Now we have stood up to the Communists ; ; we are stronger and more self-confident -- and Low can not so easily put us to rights . 
Or does the reason for less Jovian drawings lie elsewhere ? ? 
It might be that Low has seen too many stupidities and that they do not outrage him now . 
He writes , " Confucius held that in times of stress one should take short views -- only up to lunchtime " . 
Whatever the cause , his mood in the fifties rarely rises above the level of the capably sardonic . 
Dulles ? ? 
He does not seem to have caught the subtleties of the man . 
McCarthy ? ? 
The skies turn dark but the clouds do not loose their wrath . 
Suez ? ? 
Low seems to have supported Eden at first and then relented because things worked out differently , so there is no fire in his eye . 
Stalin 's death , Churchill 's farewell to public life , Hillary and Tensing on Everest , Quemoy and Matsu -- all subjects for a noble anger or an accolade . 
Instead the cartoons seem to deal with foibles . 
Their Eisenhower is insubstantial . 
Did Low decide to let well enough alone when he made his selections ? ? 
He often drew the bomb . 
He showed puny men attacked by splendidly tyrannical machines . 
And Khrushchev turned out to be prime copy for the most witty caricaturist of them all . 
But , but and but . 
Look in this book for weak mortals and only on occasion for virtues and vices on the heroic scale . 
Read the moderately brief text , not for captions , sometimes for tart epigrams , once in a while for an explosion in the middle of your fixed ideas . 
A gray fox with a patch on one eye -- confidence man , city slicker , lebensraum specialist -- tries to take over Catfish Bend in this third relaxed allegory from Mr. Burman 's refreshing Louisiana animal community . 
The fox is all ingratiating smiles when he arrives from New Orleans , accompanied by one wharf rat . 
But like all despots , as he builds his following from among the gullible , he grows more threatening toward those who wo n't follow -- such solid citizens as Doc Raccoon ; ; Judge Black , the vegetarian black snake ; ; and the eagle , who leads the bird community when he is not too busy in Washington posing for fifty-cent pieces . 
As soon as the fox has taken hold on most of the populace he imports more wharf rats , who , of course , say they are the aggrieved victims of an extermination campaign in the city . 
( The followers of bullies invariably are aggrieved about the very things they plan to do to others . 
) They train the mink and other animals to fight . 
And pretty soon gray fox is announcing that he wo n't have anyone around that 's against him , and setting out to break his second territorial treaty with the birds . 
Robert Hillyer , the poet , writes in his introduction to this brief animal fable that Mr. Burman ought to win a Nobel Prize for the Catfish Bend series . 
He may have a point in urging that decadent themes be given fewer prizes . 
But it 's hard to imagine Mr. Burman as a Nobel laureate on the basis of these charming but not really momentous fables . 
In substance they lie somewhere between the Southern dialect animal stories of Joel Chandler Harris ( Uncle Remus ) and the polished , witty fables of James Thurber . 
