In tradition and in poetry , the marriage bed is a place of unity and harmony . 
The partners each bring to it unselfish love , and each takes away an equal share of pleasure and joy . 
At its most ecstatic moments , husband and wife are elevated far above worldly cares . 
Everything else is closed away . 
This is the ideal . 
But marriage experts say that such mutual contribution and mutual joy are seldom achieved . 
Instead one partner or the other dominates the sexual relationship . 
In the past , it has been the husband who has been dominant and the wife passive . 
But today there are signs that these roles are being reversed . 
In a growing number of American homes , marriage counselors report , the wife is taking a commanding role in sexual relationships . 
It is she who decides the time , the place , the surroundings , and the frequency of the sexual act . 
It is she who says aye or nay to the intimate questions of sexual technique and mechanics -- not the husband . 
The whole act is tailored to her pleasure , and not to theirs . 
Beyond a certain point , of course , no woman can be dominant -- nature has seen to that . 
But there is little doubt that in many marriages the wife is boss of the marital bed . 
Of course , there remain many " old-fashioned " marriages in which the husband maintains his supremacy . 
Yet even in these marriages , psychologists say , wives are asserting themselves more strongly . 
The meekest , most submissive wife of today is a tiger by her mother 's or grandmother 's standards . 
To many experts , this trend was inevitable . 
They consider it simply a sign of our times . 
Our society has " emancipated " the woman , giving her new independence and new authority . 
It is only natural that she assert herself in the sexual role . 
" The sexual relationship does not exist in a vacuum " , declares Dr. Mary Steichen Calderone , medical director of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and author of the recent book , Release From Sexual Tensions . 
" It reflects what is going on in other areas of the marriage and in society itself . 
A world in which wives have taken a more active role is likely to produce sexual relationships in which wives are more self-assertive , too " . 
Yet many psychologists and marriage counselors agree that domination of the sex relationship by one partner or the other can be unhealthy and even dangerous . 
It can , in fact , wreck a marriage . 
When a husband is sexually selfish and heedless of his wife 's desires , she is cheated of the fulfillment and pleasure nature intended for her . 
And she begins to regard him as savage , bestial and unworthy . 
On the other hand , wifely supremacy demeans the husband , saps his self-respect , and robs him of his masculinity . 
He is a target of ridicule to his wife , and often -- since private affairs rarely remain private -- to the outside world as well . 
" A marriage can survive almost any kind of stress except an open and direct challenge to the husband 's maleness " , declares Dr. Calderone . 
This opinion is supported by one of the nation 's leading psychiatrists , Dr. Maurice E. Linden , director of the Mental Health Division of the Philadelphia Department of Public Health . 
" When the roles of husband and wife are reversed , so that the wife becomes leader and the husband follower " , Dr. Linden says , " the effects on their whole relationship , sexual and otherwise , can be disastrous " . 
In one extreme case , cited by a Pittsburgh psychologist , an office worker 's wife refused to have sexual relations with her husband unless he bought her the luxuries she demanded . 
To win her favors , her husband first took an additional job , then desperately began to embezzle from his employer . 
Caught at last , he was sentenced to prison . 
While he was in custody his wife divorced him . 
More typical is the case of a suburban Long Island housewife described by a marriage counselor . 
This woman repeatedly complained she was " too tired " for marital relations . 
To please her , her husband assumed some of the domestic chores . 
Finally , he was cooking , washing dishes , bathing the children , and even ironing -- and still his wife refused to have relations as often as he desired them . 
One wife , described by a New York psychologist , so dominated her husband that she actually placed their sexual relationship on a schedule , writing it down right between the weekly PTA meetings and the Thursday-night neighborhood card parties . 
Another put sex on a dollars-and-cents basis . 
After every money argument , she rebuffed her husband 's overtures until the matter was settled in her favor . 
Experts say the partners in marriages like these can almost be typed . 
The wife is likely to be young , sophisticated , smart as a whip -- often a girl who has sacrificed a promising career for marriage . 
She knows the power of the sex urge and how to use it to manipulate her husband . 
The husband is usually a well-educated professional , preoccupied with his job -- often an organization man whose motto for getting ahead is : " Do n't rock the boat " . 
Sometimes this leads to his becoming demandingly dominant in marriage . 
Hemmed in on the job and unable to assert himself , he uses the sex act so he can be supreme in at least one area . 
More often , though , he is so accustomed to submitting to authority on the job without argument that he lives by the same rule at home . 
Some psychologists , in fact , suggest that career-bound husbands often are more to blame for topsy-turvy marriages than their wives . 
The wife 's attempt at control , these psychologists contend , is sometimes merely a pathetic effort to compel her husband to pay as much attention to her as he does to his job . 
Naturally no woman can ever completely monopolize the sexual initiative . 
Unless her husband also desires sex , the act can not be consummated . 
Generally , however , in such marriages as those cited , the husband is at his wife 's mercy . 
" The pattern " , says Dr. Morton Schillinger , psychologist at New York 's Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy , " is for the husband to hover about anxiously and eagerly , virtually trembling in his hope that she will flash him the signal that tonight is the night " . 
No one seriously contends , of course , that the domineering wife is , sexually speaking , a new character in our world . 
After all , the henpecked husband with his shrewish wife is a comic figure of long standing , in literature and on the stage , as Dr. Schillinger points out . 
There is no evidence that these Milquetoasts became suddenly emboldened when they crossed the threshhold of the master bedroom . 
Furthermore , Dr. Calderone says , a certain number of docile , retiring men always have been around . 
They are n't " frigid " and they are n't homosexual ; ; they 're just restrained in all of life . 
They like to be dominated . 
One such man once confided to Dr. Theodor Reik , New York psychiatrist , that he preferred to have his wife the sexual aggressor . 
Asked why , he replied primly : " Because that 's no activity for a gentleman " . 
But such cases were , in the past , unusual . 
Society here and abroad has been built around the dominating male -- even the Bible appears to endorse the concept . 
Family survival on our own Western frontier , for example , could quite literally depend on a man 's strength and ability to bring home the bacon ; ; and the dependent wife seldom questioned his judgment about anything , including the marriage bed . 
This carried over into the more urbanized late 19th and early 20th centuries , when the man ruled the roost in the best bull-roaring Life With Father manner . 
In those days , a wife had mighty few rights in the domestic sphere and even fewer in the sexual sphere . 
" Grandma was n't expected to like it " , Dr. Marion Hilliard , the late Toronto gynecologist , once summed up the attitude of the '90s . 
Wives of the period shamefacedly thought of themselves as " used " by their husbands -- and , history indicates , they often quite literally were . 
When was the turning point ? ? 
When did women begin to assert themselves sexually ? ? 
Some date it from woman suffrage , others from when women first began to challenge men in the marketplace , still others from the era of the emancipated flapper and bathtub gin . 
Virtually everyone agrees , however , that the trend toward female sexual aggressiveness was tremendously accelerated with the postwar rush to the suburbs . 
Left alone while her husband was miles away in the city , the modern wife assumed more and more duties normally reserved for the male . 
Circumstances gave her almost undisputed sway over child-rearing , money-handling and home maintenance . 
She found she could cope with all kinds of problems for which she was once considered too helpless . 
She liked this taste of authority and independence , and , with darkness , was not likely to give it up . 
" Very few wives " , says Dr. Calderone , " who balance the checkbook , fix the car , choose where the family will live and deal with the tradesmen , are suddenly going to become submissive where sex is concerned . 
A woman who dominates other family affairs will dominate the sexual relationship as well " . 
And an additional factor was helping to make women more sexually self-assertive -- the comparatively recent discovery of the true depths of female desire and response . 
Marriage manuals and women 's magazine articles began to stress the importance of the female climax . 
They began to describe in detail the woman 's capacity for response . 
In fact , the noted psychologist and sex researcher , Dr. Albert Ellis , has declared flatly that women are " sexually superior " to men . 
According to Dr. Ellis , the average 20-year-old American woman is capable of far greater sexual arousal than her partner . 
Not surprisingly , Dr. Ellis says , some recently enlightened wives are out to claim these capabilities . 
Yet , paradoxically , according to Dr. Maurice Linden , many wives despise their husbands for not standing up to them . 
An aggressive woman wants a man to demand , not knuckle under . 
" When the husband becomes passive in the face of his wife 's aggressiveness " , Dr. Linden says , " the wife , in turn , finds him inadequate . 
Often she fails to gain sexual satisfaction " . 
One such wife , Dr. Linden says , became disgusted with her weak husband and flurried through a series of extramarital affairs in the hope of finding a stronger man . 
But her personality was such that each affair lasted only until that lover , too , had been conquered and reduced to passivity . 
Then the wife bed-hopped to the next on the list . 
In some cases , however , domination of the sex act by one partner can be temporary , triggered by a passing but urgent emotional need . 
Thus a man who is butting a stone wall at the office may become unusually aggressive in bed -- the one place he can still be champion . 
If his on-the-job problems work out , he may return to his old pattern . 
Sometimes a burst of aggressiveness will sweep over a man -- or his wife -- because he or she feels age creeping up . 
On the other hand , a husband who always has been vigorous and assertive may suddenly become passive -- asking , psychologists say , for reassurance that his wife still finds him desirable . 
Or a wife may make sudden demands that she be courted , flattered or coaxed , simply because she needs her ego lifted . 
In any case , Dr. Calderone remarks , such problems are a couple 's own affair , and ca n't always be measured by a general yardstick . 
" As long as the couple is in agreement in their approach to sex , it makes little difference if one or the other dominates " , Dr. Calderone declares . 
" The important point is that both be satisfied with the adjustment " . 
Other experts say , however , that if sexual domination by one or the other partner exists for longer than a brief period , it is likely to shake the marriage . 
And just as domination today often begins with the wife , so the cure generally must lie with the husband . 
" To get a marriage back where it belongs " , comments Dr. Schillinger of the Lincoln Institute , " the husband must take some very basic steps . 
He must begin , paradoxically , by becoming more selfish . 
He must become more expressive of his own desires , more demanding and less ' understanding ' " . 
Too many husbands , Dr. Schillinger continues , worry about " how well they 're doing " , and fear that their success depends on some trick or technique of sexual play . 
