Farming is confining . 
The farmer 's life must be arranged to meet the demands of crops and livestock . 
Livestock must be tended every day , routinely . 
A slight change in the work schedule may cut the production of cows or chickens . 
Even if there are no livestock , the farmer can not leave the farm for long periods , particularly during the growing season . 
The worker who lives on a farm can not change jobs readily . 
He can not leave the farm to take work in another locality on short notice ; ; such a move may mean a loss of capital . 
Hard physical labor and undesirable hours are a part of life . 
The farmer must get up early , and , at times , work late at night . 
Frequently he must work long hours in the hot sun or cold rain . 
No matter how well work is planned , bad weather or unexpected setbacks can cause extra work that must be caught up . 
It may not be profitable for a part-time farmer to own the labor-saving machinery that a full-time farmer can invest in profitably . 
Production may fall far below expectations . 
Drought , hail , disease , and insects take their toll of crops . 
Sickness or loss of some of the livestock may cut into the owner 's earnings , even into his capital . 
Returns for money and labor invested may be small even in a good year . 
The high cost of land , supplies , and labor make it difficult to farm profitably on a part-time basis . 
Land within commuting distance of a growing city is usually high in price , higher if it has subdivision possibilities . 
Part-time farmers generally must pay higher prices for supplies than full-time farmers because they buy in smaller quantities . 
If the farm is in an industrial area where wages are high , farm labor costs will also be high . 
A part-time farmer needs unusual skill to get as high production per hen , per cow , or per acre as can be obtained by a competent full-time farmer . 
It will frequently be uneconomical for him to own the most up-to-date equipment . 
He may have to depend upon custom service for specialized operations , such as spraying or threshing , and for these , he may have to wait his turn . 
There will be losses caused by emergencies that arise while he is away at his off-farm job . 
The farm may be an additional burden if the main job is lost . 
This may be true whether the farm is owned or rented . 
If the farm is rented , the rent must be paid . 
If it is owned , taxes must be paid , and if the place is not free of mortgage , there will be interest and payments on the principal to take care of . 
Advantages A farm provides a wholesome and healthful environment for children . 
It gives them room to play and plenty of fresh air . 
The children can do chores adapted to their age and ability . 
Caring for a calf , a pig , or some chickens develops in children a sense of responsibility for work . 
Part-time farming gives a measure of security if the regular job is lost , provided the farm is owned free of debt and furnishes enough income to meet fixed expenses and minimum living costs . 
For some retired persons , part-time farming is a good way to supplement retirement income . 
It is particularly suitable for those who need to work or exercise out of doors for their health . 
Generally , the same level of living costs less in the country than in the city . 
The savings are not as great , however , as is sometime supposed . 
Usually , the cost of food and shelter will be somewhat less on the farm and the cost of transportation and utilities somewhat more . 
Where schools , fire and police protection , and similar municipal services are of equal quality in city and country , real estate taxes are usually about the same . 
A part-time farmer and his family can use their spare time profitably . 
Some persons consider the work on a farm recreational . 
For some white-collar workers it is a welcome change from the regular job , and a physical conditioner . 
Land , labor , and equipment needed Part-time farming can take comparatively little land , labor , and equipment -- or a great deal . 
It depends on the kind and the scale of the farming operation . 
General requirements for land , labor , and equipment are discussed below . 
Specific requirements for each of various types of enterprises are discussed on pages 8 to 14 . 
Land Three quarters to 1 acre of good land is enough for raising fruits and vegetables for home use , and for a small flock of chickens , a cow , and two pigs . 
You could not , of course , raise feed for the livestock on a plot this small . 
If you want to raise feed or carry out some enterprise on a larger scale , you 'll need more land . 
In deciding how much land you want , take into account the amount you 'll need to bring in the income you expect . 
But consider also how much you and your family can keep up along with your other work . 
The cost of land and the prospects for appreciation in value may influence your decision . 
Some part-time farmers buy more land than they need in anticipation of suburban development . 
This is a highly speculative venture . 
Sometimes a desired acreage is offered only as part of a larger tract . 
When surplus land is not expensive to buy or to keep up , it is usually better to buy it than to buy so small an acreage that the development of adjoining properties might impair the residential value of the farm . 
Labor If you have a year-round , full-time job you ca n't expect to grow much more than your family uses -- unless other members of the family do a good deal of the work or you hire help . 
As a rule , part-time farmers hire little help . 
In deciding on the enterprises to be managed by family labor , compare the amount of labor that can be supplied by the family with the labor needs of various enterprises listed in table 1 . 
List the number of hours the family can be expected to work each month . 
You may want to include your own regular vacation period if you have one . 
Do not include all your spare time or all your family 's spare time -- only what you are willing to use for farm work . 
Equipment If you are going to produce for home use only , you will need only hand tools . 
You will probably want to hire someone to do the plowing , however . 
For larger plantings , you 'll need some kind of power for plowing , harrowing , disking , and cultivating . 
If you have a planting of half an acre or more you may want to buy a small garden tractor ( available for $ 300 to $ 500 with attachments , 1960 prices ) . 
These tractors are not entirely satisfactory for plowing , particularly on heavier soils , so you may still want to hire someone to do the plowing . 
Cost of power and machinery is often a serious problem to the small-scale farmer . 
If you are going to farm for extra cash income on a part-time basis you must keep in mind the needed machinery investments when you choose among farm enterprises . 
You can keep your machinery investment down by buying good secondhand machinery , by sharing the cost and upkeep of machinery with a neighbor , and by hiring someone with machinery to do certain jobs . 
If an expensive and specialized piece of machinery is needed -- such as a spray rig , a combine , or a binder -- it is better to pay someone with a machine to do the work . 
Selecting a farm Before you look for a farm you 'll need to know ( 1 ) the kind and scale of farming you want to undertake ; ; and ( 2 ) whether you want to buy or rent . 
Information on pages 8 to 14 may help you in deciding on the kind and scale of your farming venture . 
If you are not well acquainted with the area in which you wish to locate , or if you are not sure that you and your family will like and make a success of farming , usually you would do better to rent a place for a year or two before you buy . 
Discussed below are some of the main things to look for when you select a part-time farm . 
Location nearness to work . 
-- Choose a location within easy commuting distance of both the regular job and other employment opportunities . 
Then if you change jobs you wo n't necessarily have to sell the farm . 
The presence of alternative job opportunities also will make the place easier to sell if that should become desirable . 
Obviously the farm should be on an all-weather road . 
Nearness to markets . 
-- If you grow anything to sell you will need markets nearby . 
If you plan to sell fresh vegetables or whole milk , for example , you should be close to a town or city . 
Kind of neighborhood . 
-- Look for a farm in a neighborhood of well-kept homes . 
There are slums in the country as well as in the city . 
Few rural areas are protected by zoning . 
A tavern , filling station , junk yard , rendering plant , or some other business may go up near enough to hurt your home or to hurt its value . 
Facilities in the area . 
-- Check on the schools in the area , the quality of teaching , and the provision for transportation to and from them . 
Find out whether fire protection , sewage system , gas , water mains , and electrical lines are available in the locality . 
If these facilities are not at the door , getting them may cost more than you expect . 
You may have to provide them yourself or get along without them . 
You can not get along without an adequate supply of pure water . 
If you are considering a part-time farm where the water must be provided by a well , find out if there is a good well on the farm or the probable cost of having one drilled . 
A pond may provide adequate water for livestock and garden . 
Pond water can be filtered for human use , but most part-time farmers would not want to go to so much trouble . 
The following amounts of water are needed per day for livestock and domestic uses . 
Topography and soil Is the land suited to the crops you intend to raise ? ? 
If you ca n't tell , get help from your county agricultural agent or other local specialist . 
Soil type , drainage , or degree of slope can make the difference between good crops and poor ones . 
Small areas that are n't right for a certain crop may lie next to areas that are well suited to that crop . 
The house Will the house on any part-time farm you are considering make a satisfactory full-time residence ? ? 
How much will it cost to do any necessary modernizing and redecorating ? ? 
If the house is not wired adequately for electricity or if plumbing or a central heating system must be installed , check into the cost of making these improvements . 
Buying a farm The value of the farm to you will depend on -- Its worth as a place to live . 
The value of the products you can raise on it . 
The possibilities of selling the property later on for suburban subdivision . 
Decide first what the place is worth to you and your family as a home in comparison with what it would cost to live in town . 
Take into account the difference in city and county taxes , insurance rates , utility rates , and the cost of travel to work . 
Next , estimate the value of possible earnings of the farm . 
To do this , set up a plan on paper for operating the farm . 
List the kind and quantity of things the farm can be expected to produce in an average year . 
Estimate the value of the produce at normal prices . 
The total is the probably gross income from farming . 
To find estimated net farm income , subtract estimated annual farming expenditures from probable gross income from farming . 
Include as expenditures an allowance for depreciation of farm buildings and equipment . 
Also count as an expense a charge for the labor to be contributed by the family . 
It may be hard to decide what this labor is worth , but charge something for it . 
Otherwise , you may pay too much for the farm and get nothing for your labor . 
To figure the value of the farm in terms of investment income , divide the estimated annual net farm income by the percentage that you could expect to get in interest if the money were invested in some other way . 
