" The food is wonderful and it is a lot of fun to be here " ! ! 
So wrote a ten year old student in a letter to his parents from North Country School , Lake Placid , New York . 
In this one sentence , he unwittingly revealed the basic philosophy of the nutrition and psychological programs in operation at the school . 
Because the food is selected with thought for its nutritional value , care for its origin , and prepared in a manner that retains the most nutrients , the food does taste good . 
When served in a psychological atmosphere that allows young bodies to assimilate the greatest good from what they eat because they are free from tension , a foundation is laid for a high level of health that releases the children from physical handicaps to participate with enjoyment in the work assignments , the athletic programs and the most important phase , the educational opportunities . 
Situated in a region of some of the loveliest mountain scenery in the country , the school buildings are located amid open fields and farm lands . 
These contemporary structures , beautifully adapted to a school in the country , are home to 60 children , ages eight to fourteen , grades four through eight . 
From fourteen states and three foreign countries they come to spend the months from mid-September to June . 
The Director , Walter E. Clark , believes that a school with children living full time in its care must take full responsibility for their welfare . 
To him this means caring for the whole child , providing basic nutrition , and a spiritual attitude that lends freedom for the development of the mind . 
Improved farming methods The concept of good nutrition really began with the garden . 
The school has always maintained a farm to supply the needs of the school . 
In a climate hostile to agriculture , Mr. Clark has had to keep alert to the most productive farm techniques . 
Where a growing season may , with luck , allow 60 days without frost , and where the soil is poor , sandy , quick-drying and subject to erosion , many farmers fail . 
Throughout the Adirondack region abandoned farm homes and wild orchards bear ghostly testimony that their owners met defeat . 
Mr. Clark found that orthodox procedures of deep plowing , use of chemical fertilizers and insecticides , plus the application of conservation principles of rotation and contouring , did not prevent sheet erosion in the potato fields and depreciation of the soil . 
" To give up these notions required a revolution in thought " , Mr. Clark said in reminiscing about the abrupt changes in ideas he experienced when he began reading " Organic Gardening " And " Modern Nutrition " in a search for help with his problems . 
" Louis Bromfield 's writings excited me as a conservationist " . 
By 1952 he was convinced he would no longer spray . 
He locked his equipment in a cabinet where it still remains . 
After reading " Plowman 's Folly " by Edward H. Faulkner , he stopped plowing . 
The basis for compost materials already existed on the school farm with a stable of animals for the riding program , poultry for eggs , pigs to eat garbage , a beef herd and wastes of all kinds . 
Separate pails were kept in the kitchen for coffee grounds and egg shells . 
All these materials and supplementary manure and other fertilizers from neighboring dairy and poultry farms made over 40 tons of finished compost a year . 
It was applied with a compost shredder made from a converted manure spreader . 
Years of patient application of compost and leaf mulching has changed the structure of the soil and its water-holding capacity . 
Soon after the method changed , visitors began asking how he managed to irrigate his soil to keep it looking moist , when in reality , it was the soil treatment alone that accomplished this . 
To demonstrate the soil of his vegetable gardens as it is today , Mr. Clark stooped to scoop up a handful of rich dark earth . 
Sniffing its sweet smell and letting it fall to show its good crumbly consistency , he pointed to the nearby driveway and said , " This soil used to be like that hard packed road over there " . 
" People and soils respond slowly " , says Walter Clark , " but the time has now come when the gardens produce delicious long-keeping vegetables due to this enrichment program . 
No chemical fertilizers and poisonous insecticides and fungicides are used " . 
The garden supplies enough carrots , turnips , rutabagas , potatoes , beets , cabbage and squash to store for winter meals in the root cellar . 
The carrots sometimes do n't make it through the winter ; ; the cabbage and squash keep until March or April . 
There is never enough corn , peas or strawberries . 
Mr. Clark still has to use rotenone with potatoes grown on the least fertile fields , but he has watched the insect damage decrease steadily and hopes that continued use of compost and leaf mulch will allow him to do without it in the future . 
A new project planned is the use of Bio-Dynamic Starter . 
New ideas for improving nutrition came with the study of soil treatment . 
" After the soil , the kitchen " , says Mr. Clark . 
The first major change was that of providing wholewheat bread instead of white bread . 
" Adults take a long time to convince and you are thwarted if you try to push " . 
At first the kitchen help was tolerant , but ordered their own supply of white bread for themselves . 
" You ca n't make French toast with whole-wheat bread " , was an early complaint . 
Of course they learned in time that they not only could use whole-wheat bread , but the children liked it better . 
Homemade bread Mrs. Clark , as house manager , planned the menus and cared for the ordering . 
Then Miss Lillian Colman came from Vermont to be kitchen manager . 
Today whole grains are freshly ground every day and baked into bread . 
Mr. Clark 's studies taught him that the only way to conserve the vitamins in the whole grain was prompt use of the flour . 
Once the grains are ground , vitamin E begins to deteriorate immediately and half of it is lost by oxidation and exposure to the air within one week . 
A mill stands in a room off the kitchen . 
Surrounding it are metal cans of grains ordered from organic farms in the state . 
Miss Colman pours measures of whole wheat , oats , and soy beans and turns on the motor . 
She goes on about her work and listens for the completion of the grinding . 
The bread baked from this mixture is light in color and fragrant in aroma . 
It is well liked by the children and faculty . 
There is one problem with the bread . 
" Lillian 's bread is so good and everything tastes so much better here that it is hard not to eat too much " , said the secretary ruefully eyeing her extra pounds . 
Hot , freshly-ground cereal The school has not used cold prepared cereals for years , though at one time that was all they ever served . 
When the chance came , they first eliminated cold cereal once a week , then gradually converted to hot fresh-ground cereal every day . 
They serve cracked wheat , oats or cornmeal . 
Occasionally , the children find steamed , whole-wheat grains for cereal which they call " buckshot " . 
At the beginning of the school year , the new students do n't eat the cereal right away , but within a short time they are eating it voraciously . 
When they leave for vacations they miss the hot cereal . 
The school has received letters from parents asking , " What happened to Johnny ? ? 
He never used to like any hot cereal , now that 's the only kind he wants . 
Where can we get this cereal he likes so much " ? ? 
Body-building foods Salads are served at least once a day . 
Vegetables are served liberally . 
Most come from the root cellar or from the freezer . 
Home-made sauerkraut is served once a week . 
Sprouted grains and seeds are used in salads and dishes such as chop suey . 
Sometimes sprouted wheat is added to bread and causes the children to remark , " Lillian , did you put nuts in the bread today " ? ? 
Milk appears twice a day . 
The school raises enough poultry , pigs , and beef cattle for most of their needs . 
Lots of cheese made from June grass milk is served . 
Hens are kept on the range and roosters are kept with them for their fertility . 
Organ meats such as beef and chicken liver , tongue and heart are planned once a week . 
Also , salt water fish is on the table once a week . 
For deserts , puddings and pies are each served once a week . 
Most other desserts are fruit in some form , fresh fruits once daily at least , sometimes at snack time . 
Dried fruits are purchased from sources where they are neither sulphured nor sprayed . 
Apples come from a farm in Vermont where they are not sprayed . 
Oranges and grapefruit are shipped from Florida weekly from an organic farm . 
Finding sources for these high quality foods is a problem . 
Sometimes the solution comes in unexpected ways . 
Following a talk by Mr. Clark at the New York State Natural Food Associates Convention , a man from the audience offered to ship his unsprayed apples to the school from Vermont . 
Wheat-germ , brewer 's yeast and ground kelp are used in bread and in dishes such as spaghetti sauce , meat loaves . 
Miss Colman hopes to find suitable shakers so that kelp can be available at the tables . 
Raw wheat-germ is available on the breakfast table for the children to help themselves . 
Very few fried foods are used and the use of salt and pepper is discouraged . 
Drinking with meals is also discouraged ; ; pitchers of water merely appear on the tables . 
Nothing is peeled . 
The source is known so there is no necessity to remove insecticide residues . 
The cooking conserves a maximum of the vitamin C content of vegetables by methods which use very little water and cook in the shortest time possible . 
Wholesome snacks , no candy Since Mr. Clark believes firmly that the chewing of hard foods helps develop healthy gums and teeth , raw vegetables and raw whole-wheat grains are handed out with fresh fruit and whole-wheat cookies at snack time in the afternoons . 
To solve the problem of the wheat grains spilling on the floor and getting underfoot , a ball of maple syrup boiled to candy consistency was invented to hold the grains . 
On their frequent hikes into the nearby mountains , the children carry whole grains to munch along the trail . 
They learn to like these so well that it is n't surprising to hear that one boy tried the oats he was feeding his horse at chore time . 
They tasted good to him , so he brought some to breakfast to eat in his cereal bowl with milk and honey . 
Maple syrup is made by the children in the woods on the school grounds . 
This and raw sugar replace ordinary refined sugar on the tables and very little sugar is used in cooking . 
Candy is not allowed . 
Parents are asked in the bulletin to send packages of treats consisting of fruit and nuts , but no candy . 
Nourishing meals Mr. Clark believes in a good full breakfast of fruit , hot cereal , milk , honey , whole-wheat toast with real butter and eggs . 
The heavy meal comes in the middle of the day . 
Soup is often the important dish at supper . 
Homemade of meat , bones and vegetables , it is rich in dissolved minerals and vitamins . 
The school finds that the children are satisfied with smaller amounts of food since all of it is high in quality . 
The cost to feed one person is just under one dollar a day . 
Outdoor exercises Even before he saw the necessity of growing better food and planning good nutrition , Mr. Clark felt the school had a good health program . 
Rugged outdoor exercise for an hour and a half every day in all kinds of weather was the rule . 
A vigorous program existed in skiing , skating sports and overnight hiking . 
Healthier children Since the change to better nutrition , he feels he can report on improvements in health , though he considers the following statements observations and not scientific proof . 
Visitors to the school ask what shampoo they use on the children 's hair to bring out the sheen . 
The ruddy complexion of the faces also brings comment . 
