The letters of the common soldiers are rich in humor . 
Indeed , no richer humor is to be found in the whole of American literature than in the letters of the semi-literate men who wore the blue and the gray . 
Some of their figures of speech were colorful and expressive . 
A Confederate observed that the Yankees were : " thicker than lise on a hen and a dam site ornraier " . 
Another reported that his comrades were " in fine spirits pitching around like a blind dog in a meat house " . 
A third wrote that it was " raining like poring peas on a rawhide " . 
Yanks were equally adept at figurative expression . 
One wrote : " ( I am so hungry ) I could eat a rider off his horse & snap at the stirups " . 
A second reported that the dilapidated houses in Virginia " look like the latter end of original sin and hard times " . 
A third remarked of slowness of Southerners : " they moved about from corner to corner , as uneasy as a litter of hungry leaches on the neck of a wooden god " . 
Still another , annoyed by the brevity of a recently received missive , wrote : " yore letter was short and sweet , jist like a roasted maget " . 
A Yankee sergeant gave the following description of his sweetheart : " my girl is none of your one-horse girls . 
She is a regular stub and twister , double geered . 
She is well-educated and refined , all wildcat and fur , and Union from the muzzle to the crupper " . 
Humor found many modes of expression . 
A Texan wrote to a male companion at home : " what has become of Halda and Laura ? ? 
When you see them again give them my love -- not best respects now , but love by God " . 
William R. Stillwell , an admirable Georgian whose delightful correspondence is preserved in the Georgia Department of Archives and History , liked to tease his wife in his letters . 
After he had been away from home about a year he wrote : " ( dear Wife ) if I did not write and receive letters from you I believe that I would forgit that I was married . 
I do n't feel much like a maryed man but I never forgit it sofar as to court enny other lady but if I should you must forgive me as I am so forgitful " . 
A Yank , disturbed by his increasing corpulence , wrote : " I am growing so fat I am a burden 2 myself " . 
Another Yank parodied the familiar bedtime prayer : " now I lay me down to sleep , the gray-backs o'er my body creep ; ; if they should bite before I wake , I pray the Lord their jaws to break " . 
Charles Thiot , a splendid Georgia soldier , differed from most of his comrades in the ranks in that he was the owner of a large plantation , well-educated , and nearly fifty years of age . 
But he was very much like his associates in his hatred of camp routine . 
Near the end of his service he wrote that when the war was over he was going to buy two pups , name one of them " Fall-in " and the other " Close-up " , and then shoot them both , " and that will be the end of Fall-in and Close-up " . 
The soldiers who comprised the rank and file of the Civil War armies were an earthy people . 
They talked and wrote much about the elemental functions of the body . 
One of the most common of camp maladies was diarrhoea . 
Men of more delicate sensibilities referred to this condition as " looseness of the bowels " ; ; but a much more common designation was " the sh-ts " . 
A Michigan soldier stationed in Georgia wrote in 1864 : : " I expect to be tough as a knott as soon as I get over the Georgia Shitts " . 
Johnny Rebs from the deep South who were plagued with diarrhoea after transfer to the Virginia front often informed their families that they were suffering from the " the Virginia quickstep " . 
A Georgia soldier gave his wife the following description of the cause and consequence of diarrhoea : " I have bin a little sick with diorah two or three days . 
I eat too much eggs and poark . 
It sowered ( on ) my stomack and turn loose on me " . 
A Michigan soldier wrote his brother : " I am well at present with the exception I have got the Dyerear and I hope thease few lines find you the same " . 
The letters which poured forth from camps were usually written under adverse circumstances . 
Save for brief periods in garrison or winter quarters , soldiers rarely enjoyed the luxury of a writing desk or table . 
Most of the letters were written in the hubbub of camp , on stumps , pieces of bark , drum heads , or the knee . 
In the South , after the first year of the war , paper and ink were very poor . 
Scarcity of paper caused many Southerners to adopt the practice of cross-writing , i.e. , after writing from left to right of the page in the usual manner , they gave the sheet a half turn and wrote from end to end across the lines previously written . 
Sometimes soldiers wrote letters while bullets were whizzing about their heads . 
A Yank writing from Vicksburg , May 28 , 1863 , stated : " not less than 50 balls have passed over me since I commenced writing . 
I could tell you of plenty narrow escapes , but we take no notice of them now " . 
A Reb stationed near Petersburg informed his mother : " I need not tell you that I dodge pretty often for you can see that very plainly by the blots in this letter . 
Just count each blot a dodge and add in a few for I do n't dodge every time " . 
Another Reb writing under similar circumstances before Atlanta reported : " the Yankees keep shooting so I am afraid they will knock over my ink , so I will close " . 3 , the most common type of letter was that of soldier husbands to their wives . 
But fathers often addressed communications to their small children ; ; and these , full of homely advice , are among the most human and revealing of Civil War letters . 
Rebs who owned slaves occasionally would include in their letters admonitions or greetings to members of the Negro community . 
Occasionally they would write to the slaves . 
Early in the war it was not uncommon for planters ' sons to retain in camp Negro " body servants " to perform the menial chores such as cooking , foraging , cleaning the quarters , shining shoes , and laundering clothes . 
Sometimes these servants wrote or dictated for enclosure with the letters of their soldier-masters messages to their relatives and to members of their owners ' families . 
Unmarried soldiers carried on correspondence with sweethearts at home . 
Owing to the restrained usages characteristic of 19th-century America , these letters usually were stereotyped and revealed little depth of feeling . 
Occasionally gay young blades would write vividly to boon companions at home about their amorous exploits in Richmond , Petersburg , Washington , or Nashville . 
But these comments are hardly printable . 
An Alabama soldier whose feminine associations were of the more admirable type wrote boastfully of his achievements among the Virginia belles : " they thout I was a saint . 
I told them some sweet lies and they believed it all . 
I would tell them I got a letter from home stating that five of my Negroes had runaway and ten of Pappy 's . 
But I wold say I recond he did not mind it for he had a plenty more left and then they would lean to me like a sore eyd kitten to a basin of milk " . 
Some of the letters were pungently expressive . 
An Ohio soldier who , from a comrade just returned from leave , received an unfavorable comment on the conduct of his sister , took pen in hand and delivered himself thus : " dear Sis . 
Alf sed he heard that you and Hardy was a runing together all the time and he though he wod gust quit having any thing mor to doo with you for he thought it was no more yuse . 
I think you made a dam good chouise to turn off as nise a feler as Alf Dyer and let that orney thefin , drunkard , damed card playing sun of a bich com to sea you , the god damed theaf and lop yeard pigen tode helion , he is too orney for hel . 
I will shute him as shore as I sea him " . 
Initiation into combat sometimes elicited from soldier correspondents choice comments about their experiences and reactions . 
A Federal infantryman wrote to his father shortly after his first skirmish in Virginia : " dear Pa . 
Went out a skouting yesterday . 
We got to one house where there were five secessionists . 
They brok & run and Arch holored out to shoot the ornery suns of biches and we all let go at them . 
Thay may say what they please but godamit Pa it is fun " . 
Some of the choicest remarks made by soldiers in their letters were in disparagement of unpopular officers . 
A Mississippi soldier wrote : " our General Reub Davis is a vain , stuck-up , illiterate ass " . 
An Alabamian wrote : " Col. Henry is ( an ignoramus ) fit for nothing higher than the cultivation of corn " . 
A Floridian stated that his officers were " not fit to tote guts to a bear " . 
On December 9 , 1862 , Sergeant Edwin H. Fay , an unusual Louisianan who held A.B. and M.A. degrees from Harvard University and who before the war was headmaster of a private school for boys in Louisiana , wrote his wife : " I saw Pemberton and he is the most insignificant puke I ever saw . 
His head can not contain enough sense to command a regiment , much less a corps . 
Jackson runs first and his Cavalry are well drilled to follow their leader . 
He is not worth shucks . 
But he is a West Point graduate and therefore must be born to command " . 
Similar comments about officers are to be found in the letters of Northern soldiers . 
A Massachusetts soldier , who seems to have been a Civil War version of Bill Mauldin , wrote : " the officers consider themselves as made of a different material from the low fellows in the ranks . 
They get all the glory and most of the pay and do n't earn ten cents apiece on the average , the drunken rascals " . 
Private George Gray Hunter of Pennsylvania wrote : " I am well convinced in my own mind that had it not been for officers this war would have ended long ago " . 
Another Yankee became so disgusted as to state : " I wish to God one half of our officers were knocked in the head by slinging them against ( the other half ) " . 
No group of officers came in for more spirited denunciation than the doctors . 
One Federal soldier wrote : " the docters is no aconte -- hell will be filde with do ( c ) ters and offersey when this war is over " . 
Shortly after the beginning of Sherman 's Georgia campaign , an ailing Yank wrote his homefolk : " the surgeon insisted on sending me to the hospital for treatment . 
I insisted on takeing the field and prevailed -- thinking that I had better die by rebel bullets than ( by ) Union quackery " . 
The attitudes which the Rebs and Yanks took toward each other were very much the same and ranged over the same gamut of feeling , from friendliness to extreme hatred . 
The Rebs were , to a Massachusetts corporal , " fighting madmen or not men at all but whiskey & gunpowder put into a human frame " . 
A Pennsylvania soldier wrote that " they were the hardest looking set of men that ever I saw . 
They looked as if they had been fed on vinegar and shavings . 
" Private Jenkins Lloyd Jones of the Wisconsin Light Artillery wrote in his diary : " I strolled among the Alabamans on the right , found some of the greenest specimens of humanity I think in the universe , their ignorance being little less than the slave they despise with as imperfect a dialect . 
They recooned as how you'uns all would be a heap wus to we'uns all ' " . 
In a similar vein , but writing from the opposite side , Thomas Taylor , a private in the 6th Alabama Volunteers , in a letter to his wife , stated : " you know that my heart is with you but I never could have been satisfied to have staid at home when my country is invaded by a thievin foe , by a set of cowardly skunks whose motto is Booty . 
