Surrounded by ancient elms , the campus is spacious and beautiful . 
The buildings are mostly Georgian . 
The Dartmouth student does not live in monastic seclusion , as he once did . 
But his is still a simple life relatively free of the female presence or influence , and he must go far , even though he may go fast , for sophisticated pleasures . 
He is still heir to the rare gifts of space and silence , if he chooses to be . 
He is by no means the country boy he might have been in the last century , down from the hills with bear grease on his hair and a zeal for book learning in his heart . 
The men 's shops on Hanover 's Main Street compare favorably with those in Princeton and New Haven . 
And the automobiles that stream out of Hanover each weekend , toward Smith and Wellesley and Mount Holyoke , are no less rakish than those leaving Cambridge or West Philadelphia . 
But there has always been an outdoor air to Dartmouth . 
The would-be sophisticate and the citybred youth adopt this air without embarrassment . 
No one here pokes fun at manly virtues . 
And this gives rise to an easy camaraderie probably unequaled elsewhere in the Ivy League . 
It even affects the faculty . 
Thus , when Dartmouth 's Winter Carnival -- widely recognized as the greatest , wildest , roaringest college weekend anywhere , any time -- was broadcast over a national television hookup , Prexy John Sloan Dickey appeared on the screen in rugged winter garb , topped off by a tam-o'-shanter which he confessed had been acquired from a Smith girl . 
President Dickey 's golden retriever , frolicking in the snow at his feet , added to the picture of masculine informality . 
This carefree disdain for " side " cropped up again in the same television broadcast . 
Dean Thaddeus Seymour , wearing ski clothes , was crowning a beauteous damsel queen of the Carnival . 
She must have looked temptingly pretty to the dean as he put the crown on her head . 
So he kissed her . 
No Dartmouth man was surprised . 
Dartmouth students enjoy other unusual diversions with equal sang-froid . 
For example , groups regularly canoe down the Connecticut River . 
This is in honor of John Ledyard , class of 1773 , who scooped a canoe out of a handy tree and first set the course way back in his own student days . 
And these hardy travelers are not unappreciated today . 
They are hailed by the nation 's press , and Smith girls throng the riverbanks at Northampton and refresh the voyageurs with hot soup and kisses . 
Dartmouth 's favorite and most characteristic recreation is skiing . 
Since the days when their two thousand pairs of skis outnumbered those assembled anywhere else in the United States , the students have stopped regarding the Olympic Ski Team as another name for their own . 
Yet Dartmouth still is the dominant member of the Intercollegiate Ski Union , which includes the winter sports colleges of Canada as well as those of this country . 
Dartmouth students ski everywhere in winter , starting with their own front door . 
They can hire a horse and go ski-joring behind him , or move out to Oak Hill , where there 's a lift . 
The Dartmouth Skiway , at Holt 's Ledge , ten miles north of the campus , has one of the best terrains in the East , ranging from novice to expert . 
Forty miles farther north is Mount Moosilauke , Dartmouth 's own mountain . 
Here , at the Ravine Lodge , President Dickey acts as host every year to about a hundred freshmen who are being introduced by the Dartmouth Outing Club to life on the trails . 
The Lodge , built of hand-hewn virgin spruce , can handle fifty people for dining , sleeping , or lounging in its huge living room . 
The Outing Club also owns a chain of fourteen cabins and several shelters , extending from the Vermont hills , just across the river from the college , through Hanover to the College Grant -- 27,000 acres of wilderness 140 miles north up in the logging country . 
The cabins are equipped with bunks , blankets , and cooking equipment and are ideal bases for hikes and skiing trips . 
The club runs regular trips to the cabins , but many of the students prefer to take off in small unofficial groups for a weekend of hunting , fishing , climbing , or skiing . 
Under the auspices of the Outing Club , Dartmouth also has the Mountaineering Club , which takes on tough climbs like Mount McKinley , and Bait & Bullet , whose interests are self-evident , and even sports a Woodman 's Team , which competes with other New England colleges in wood sawing and chopping , canoe races , and the like . 
There is much to be said for a college that , while happily attuned to the sophisticated Ivies , still gives its students a chance to get up early in the morning and drive along back roads where a glimpse of small game , deer , or even bear is not uncommon . 
City boys find a lot of learning in the feel of an ax handle or in the sharp tang of a sawmill , come upon suddenly in a backwoods logging camp . 
And on the summit of Mount Washington , where thirty-five degrees below zero is commonplace and the wind velocity has registered higher than anywhere else in the world , there is a kind of wisdom to be found that other men often seek in the Himalayas " because it is there " . 
There is much to be said for such a college -- and Dartmouth men have been accused of saying it too often and too loudly . 
Their affection for their college home has even caused President Dickey to comment on this " place loyalty " as something rather specially Hanoverian . 
Probably a lawyer once said it best for all time in the Supreme Court of the United States . 
Early in the nineteenth century the State of New Hampshire was casting about for a way to found its own state university . 
It fixed on Dartmouth College , which was ready-made and just what the proctor ordered . 
The legislators decided to " liberate " Dartmouth and entered into a tug-o'-war with the college trustees over the control of classrooms , faculty , and chapel . 
For a time there were two factions on the campus fighting for possession of the student body . 
The struggle was resolved in 1819 in the Supreme Court in one of the most intriguing cases in our judicial history . 
In 1817 the lawyers were generally debating the legal inviolability of private contracts and charters . 
A lawyer , hired by the college , was arguing specifically for Dartmouth : Daniel Webster , class of 1801 , made her plight the dramatic focus of his whole plea . 
In an age of oratory , he was the king of orators , and both he himself and Chief Justice Marshall were bathed in manly tears , as Uncle Dan'l reached his thundering climax : " It is , sir , as I have said , a small college , and yet there are those who love it . 
" Dartmouth is today still a small college -- and still a private one , thanks to Webster 's eloquence . 
This is not out of keeping with its origins , probably the most humble of any in the Ivy group . 
Eleazar Wheelock , a Presbyterian minister , founded the school in 1769 , naming it after the second earl of Dartmouth , its sponsor and benefactor . 
Eleazar , pausing on the Hanover plain , found its great forests and remoteness good and with his own hands built the first College Hall , a log hut dedicated " for the education & instruction of Youth of the Indian Tribes in this Land in reading , writing & all parts of learning which shall appear necessary and expedient for civilizing & christianizing Children of Pagans as well as in all liberal Arts and Sciences ; ; and also of English Youth and any others " . 
It was a hardy undertaking , and Wheelock 's was indeed " a voice crying in the wilderness " . 
A road had to be hacked through trackless forests between Hanover and Portsmouth to permit Governor Wentworth and a company of gentlemen to attend the first Dartmouth commencement in 1771 . 
The governor and his retinue thoughtfully brought with them a glorious silver punchbowl which is still one of the cherished possessions of the college . 
The exuberance on this occasion set a standard for subsequent Dartmouth gatherings . 
A student orator " produced tears from a great number of the learned " even before the punch was served . 
Then from the branches of a near-by tree an Indian underclassman , disdaining both the platform and the English language , harangued the assemblage in his aboriginal tongue . 
Governor Wentworth contributed an ox for a barbecue on the green beneath the three-hundred-foot pines , and a barrel of rum was broached . 
The cook got drunk , and President Wheelock proved to be a man of broad talents by carving the ox himself . 
Future commencements were more decorous perhaps , but the number of graduates increased from the original four at a relatively slow pace . 
By the end of the nineteenth century , in 1893 , when the Big Three , Columbia , and Penn were populous centers of learning , Dartmouth graduated only sixty-nine . 
The dormitories , including the beloved Dartmouth Hall , could barely house two hundred students in Spartan fashion . 
Then in 1893 Dr. William Jewett Tucker became president and the college 's great awakening began . 
He transformed Dartmouth from a small New Hampshire institution into a national college . 
By 1907 the number of undergraduates had risen to 1,107 . 
And at his last commencement , in that year , Dr. Tucker and Dartmouth were honored by the presence of distinguished academic visitors attesting to the new stature of the college . 
The presidents of Cornell , Wisconsin , C.C.N.Y. , Bowdoin , Vermont , Brown , Columbia , Princeton , Yale , and Harvard and the presidents emeritus of Harvard and Michigan were there . 
Dartmouth is numerically still a small college today , with approximately twenty-nine hundred undergraduates . 
But it has achieved a cross-section of students from almost all the states , and two-thirds of its undergraduates come from outside New England . 
Over 450 different schools are usually represented in each entering class . 
Only a dozen or so schools send as many as six students , and there are seldom more than fifteen men in any single delegation . 
About two-thirds of the boys now come from public schools . 
It is still a college only and not a university ; ; it is , in fact , the only college in the Ivy group . 
However , three distinguished associated graduate schools offer professional curriculums -- the Dartmouth Medical School ( third oldest in the country and founded in 1797 ) , the Thayer School of Engineering , and the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration . 
All three are purposely kept small , with a current total enrollment of about two hundred . 
All three schools coordinate their educational programs with that of the undergraduate college and , like the college proper , place emphasis upon a broad liberal arts course as the proper foundation for specialized study . 
Students of the college who are candidates for the A.B. degree and can satisfy the academic requirements of the medical and business schools , may enter either of these associated schools at the beginning of senior year , thus completing the two-year postgraduate course in one year . 
The Thayer School offers a year of postgraduate study in somewhat the same way , after a boy wins a B.S. in engineering . 
So Dartmouth is moving closer to the others in the Ivy group . 
It is still , however , the junior member of the League , if not in years at least in the catching up it has had to do . 
It has not been a well-known school for any part of the span the other Ivies have enjoyed . 
However much football has been over-emphasized , the public likes to measure its collegiate favorites by the scoreboard , so , while Yale need never give its record a thought again since outscoring its opponents 694 to 0 in the season of 1888 , Dartmouth had to wait until its championship team of 1925 for national recognition . 
It has come on with a rush in more significant areas . 
Today it espouses certain ideas in its curriculum that other institutions might consider somewhat breathtaking . 
But Dartmouth preserves its youthful brashness even in its educational attitudes , and , although some of its experiments may still be in the testing stage , they make for lively copy . 
President Emeritus Hopkins once proposed to corral an " aristocracy of brains " in Hanover . 
