But certainly the New Frontier has brought to Washington a group more varied in background and interest . 
Secretary of State Dean Rusk , a former Rhodes Scholar and Mills College dean , has headed the Rockefeller Foundation and in that role expended large sums for international cultural exchange . 
One of his initial acts in office was to appoint Philip Coombs of the Ford Foundation as the first Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs . 
( " In the late forties and fifties " , Coombs has declared in defining his role , " two strong new arms were added to reinforce United States foreign policy economic assistance and military assistance . 
As we embark upon the sixties we have an opportunity to build a third strong arm , aimed at the development of people , at the fuller realization of their creative human potential , and a better understanding among them " . 
) Many of the new appointees are art collectors . 
Ambassador-at-Large Averell Harriman has returned to the capital with a collection of paintings that include Renoir , Cezanne , Gauguin , Van Gogh , Toulouse-Lautrec , Degas , Matisse , Picasso , and Walt Kuhn . 
The Director of the Peace Corps , R. Sargent Shriver , Jr. , a Kennedy brother-in-law , collects heavily among the moderns , including Kenzo Okada and Josef Albers . 
Secretary of the Treasury Douglas Dillon owns a prize Monet , Femmes dans un Jardin . 
Secretary of Defense Robert McNamara , former President of the Ford Motor Company , comes from a generation different from that of Eisenhower 's own first Secretary of Defense , Charles Wilson , who had been head of General Motors . 
Unlike Wilson , who at times seemed almost anti-intellectual in his earthy pragmatism . 
McNamara is the scholar-businessman . 
An inveterate reader of books , he chose while working in Detroit to live in the University community of Ann Arbor , almost forty miles away . 
He selected as Comptroller of Defense , not a veteran accountant , but a former Rhodes Scholar , Charles Hitch , who is author of a study on The Economics Of Defense In The Nuclear Age . 
One of the President 's special assistants , the Harvard dean McGeorge Bundy , was co-author with Henry L. Stimson of the latter 's classic memoir , On Active Service . 
Another , Arthur M. Schlesinger , Jr. , has won a Pulitzer Prize in history ; ; his wife , Marion , is a portrait painter . 
The Press Secretary , Pierre Salinger , was a child prodigy as a pianist . 
( " It is always of sorrow to me when I find people who neither know nor understand music " , he declared not long ago in proposing that White House prizes be awarded for music and art . 
) Mrs. Arthur Goldberg , wife of the Secretary of Labor , paints professionally and helps sponsor the Associated Artists ' Gallery in the District of Columbia . 
( " Artists are always at a new frontier " , she claims . 
" In fact , the search is almost more important than the find " . 
) Mrs. Henry Labouisse , wife of the new director of the foreign aid program , is the writer and lecturer Eve Curie . 
The list goes on . 
At last count , sixteen former Rhodes Scholars ( see box on page 13 ) had been appointed to the Administration , second in number only to its Harvard graduates . 
Besides Schlesinger , the Justice Department 's Information Director , Edwin Guthman , has won a Pulitzer Prize ( for national reporting ) . 
Postmaster General J. Edward Day , who must deal with matters of postal censorship , is himself author of a novel , Bartholf Street , albeit one he was obliged to publish at his own expense . 
Two men show promise of playing prominent roles : William Walton , a writer-turned-painter , has been a long-time friend of the President . 
They arrived in Washington about the same time during the early postwar years : Kennedy as the young Congressman from Massachusetts ; ; Walton , after a wartime stint with Time-Life , to become bureau chief for The New Republic . 
Both lived in Georgetown , were unattached , and shared an active social life . 
Walton , who soon made a break from journalism to become one of the capital 's leading semi-abstract painters , vows that he and Kennedy never once discussed art in those days . 
Nonetheless , they found common interests . 
During last year 's campaign , Kennedy asked Walton , an utter novice in organization politics , to assist him . 
Walton dropped everything to serve as a district co-ordinator in the hard-fought Wisconsin primary and proved so useful that he was promoted to be liaison officer to critically important New York City . 
Walton , who served as a correspondent with General James Gavin 's paratroopers during the invasion of France , combines the soul of an artist with the lingo of a tough guy . 
He provoked outraged editorials when , after a post-Inaugural inspection of the White House with Mrs. Kennedy , he remarked to reporters , " We just cased the joint to see what was there " . 
But his credentials are impeccable . 
Already the President and the First Lady have deputized him to advise on matters ranging from the furnishing of the White House to the renovation of Lafayette Square . 
A man of great talent , he will continue to serve as a sort of Presidential trouble-shooter , strictly ex officio , for culture . 
A more official representative is the Secretary of the Interior . 
Udall , who comes from one of the Mormon first-families of Arizona , is a bluff , plain-spoken man with a lust for politics and a habit of landing right in the middle of the fight . 
But even while sparring furiously with Republican politicians , he displays a deep and awesome veneration for anyone with cultural attainments . 
His private dining room has become a way station for visiting intellectuals such as C.P. Snow , Arnold Toynbee , and Aaron Copland . 
Udall argues that Interior affairs should cover a great deal more than dams and wildlife preserves . 
After promoting Frost 's appearance at the Inauguration , he persuaded the poet to return several months later to give a reading to a select audience of Cabinet members , members of Congress , and other Washington notables gathered in the State Department auditorium . 
The event was so successful that the Interior Secretary plans to serve as impresario for similar ones from time to time , hoping thereby to add to the cultural enrichment of the Administration . 
His Ideas in this respect , however , sometimes arouse critical response . 
One tempest was stirred up last March when Udall announced that an eight-and-a-half-foot bronze statue of William Jennings Bryan , sculpted by the late Gutzon Borglum , would be sent " on indefinite loan " to Salem , Illinois , Bryan 's birthplace . 
Spokesmen for the nation 's tradition-minded sculptors promptly claimed that Udall was exiling the statue because of his own hostility to this art form . 
They dug up a speech he had made two years earlier as a Congressman , decrying the more than two hundred statues , monuments , and memorials which " dot the Washington landscape as patriotic societies and zealous friends are constantly hatching new plans " . 
Hoping to cut down on such works , Udall had proposed that a politician be at least fifty years departed before he is memorialized . 
He is not likely to win this battle easily . 
In the case of the Borglum statue an Interior aide was obliged to announce that there had been a misunderstanding and that the Secretary had no desire to " hustle " it out of Washington . 
The last Congress adopted seven bills for memorials , including one to Taras Shevchenko , the Ukrainian poet laureate ; ; eleven others were introduced . 
Active warfare is raging between the forces pressing for a monument to the first Roosevelt on Theodore Roosevelt Island in the Potomac , and TR. 's own living children , who wish to preserve the island as a wildlife sanctuary . 
The hotly debated plan for the capital 's Franklin D. Roosevelt Memorial , a circle of huge tablets engraved with his speeches ( and promptly dubbed by one of its critics , " Instant Stonehenge " ) , is another of Udall 's headaches , since as supervisor of the National Parks Commission he will share in the responsibility for building it . 
" Washington " , President Kennedy has been heard to remark ironically , " is a city of southern efficiency and northern charm " . 
There have been indications that he hopes to redress that situation , commencing with the White House . 
One of Mrs. Kennedy 's initial concerns as First Lady was the sad state of the furnishings in a building which is supposed to be a national shrine . 
Ever since the fire of 1812 destroyed the beautiful furniture assembled by President Thomas Jefferson , the White House has collected a hodgepodge of period pieces , few of them authentic or aesthetic . 
Mrs. Kennedy shows a determination to change all this . 
Not long after moving in she turned up a richly carved desk , hewed from the timbers of the British ship H.M.S. Resolute and presented to President Hayes by Queen Victoria . 
It now serves the President in his oval office . 
Later , browsing in an old issue of the Gazette Des Beaux-Arts , she found a description of a handsome gilt pier-table purchased in 1817 by President James Monroe . 
She traced it to a storage room . 
With its coating of gold radiator paint removed -- a gaucherie of some earlier tenant -- it will now occupy its rightful place in the oval Blue Room on the first floor of the White House . 
But it soon became clear that the search for eighteenth-century furniture ( which Mrs. Kennedy feels is the proper period for the White House ) must be pursued in places other than government storage rooms . 
The First Lady appointed a Fine Arts Advisory Committee for the White House , to locate authentic pieces as well as to arrange ways to acquire them . 
Her effort to put the home of living Presidents on the same basis as Mount Vernon and Monticello recognizes no party lines . 
By rough estimate her Committee , headed by Henry Francis Du Pont , contains three times as many Republicans as Democrats . 
The press releases emanating from the White House give a clue to the activity within . 
A curator has been appointed . 
A valuable pencil-and-sepia allegorical drawing of Benjamin Franklin by Jean-Honore Fragonard has been donated by the art dealer Georges Wildenstein and now hangs in the Blue Room . 
The American Institute of Interior Designers is redecorating the White House library . 
Secretary and Mrs. Dillon have contributed enough pieces of Empire furniture , including Dolley Madison 's own sofa , to furnish a room in that style . 
And part of a fabulous collection of vermeil hollowware , bequeathed to the White House by the late Mrs. Margaret Thompson Biddle , has been taken out of its locked cases and put on display in the State dining room . 
Woman 's place is in the home : man must attend to matters of the yard . 
One of the vexatious problems to first confront President Kennedy was the property lying just across Pennsylvania Avenue from the White House . 
Congress had already appropriated money , and plans were well along to tear down the buildings flanking Lafayette Square and replace them with what one critic calls the " marble monumentality " of government office buildings . 
While a Senator , Kennedy had unsuccessfully pushed a bill to preserve the Belasco Theater , as well as the Dolley Madison and the Benjamin Taylor houses , all scheduled for razing . 
What to do about it now that he was President ? ? 
Only a few days after moving into the White House . 
Kennedy made a midnight inspection of the Square . 
Then he called in his friend Walton and turned over the problem to him , with instructions to work out what was best -- provided it did n't pile unnecessary burdens on the President . 
The situation involved some political perils . 
One of the offices slated for reconstruction is the aged Court of Claims , diagonally across the street from the White House . 
Logically , it should be moved downtown . 
But Judge Marvin Jones , senior member of the Court , is an elderly gentleman who lives at the nearby Metropolitan Club and desires to walk to work . 
More importantly , he also happens to be the brother-in-law of Sam Rayburn , Speaker of the House . 
There were aesthetic problems as well as political . 
On delving deeper , Walton discovered that most of the buildings fronting the Square could be classified as " early nondescript " . 
The old Belasco Theater , over which many people had grown sentimental , was only a shell of its former self after arduous years as a USO Center . 
The Dolley Madison House , Walton concluded , was scarcely worth preserving . 
" The attempt to save the Square 's historic value " , he declares , " came half a century too late " . 
