When Harold Arlen returned to California in the winter of 1944 , it was to take up again a collaboration with Johnny Mercer , begun some years before . 
The film they did after his return was an inconsequential bit of nothing titled Out Of This World , a satire on the Sinatra bobby-soxer craze . 
The twist lay in using Bing Crosby 's voice on the sound track while leading man Eddie Bracken mouthed the words . 
If nothing else , at least two good songs came out of the project , " Out Of This World " and " June Comes Around Every Year " . 
Though they would produce some very memorable and lasting songs , Arlen and Mercer were not given strong material to work on . 
Their first collaboration came close . 
Early in 1941 they were assigned to a script titled Hot Nocturne . 
It purported to be a reasonably serious attempt at a treatment of jazz musicians , their aims , their problems -- the tug-of-war between the " pure " and the " commercial " -- and seemed a promising vehicle , for the two men shared a common interest in jazz . 
Johnny Mercer practically grew up with the sound of jazz and the blues in his ears . 
He was born in Savannah , Georgia , in 1909 . 
His father , George A. Mercer , was descended from an honored Southern family that could trace its ancestry back to one Hugh Mercer , who had emigrated from Scotland in 1747 . 
The lyricist 's father was a lawyer who had branched out into real estate . 
His second wife , Lillian , was the mother of John H. Mercer . 
By the age of six young Johnny indicated that he had the call . 
One day he followed the Irish Jasper Greens , the town band , to a picnic and spent the entire day listening , while his family spent the day looking . 
The disappearance caused his family to assign a full-time maid to keeping an eye on the boy . 
But one afternoon Mrs. Mercer met her ; ; both were obviously on the way to the Mercer home . 
The mother inquired , " Where 's Johnny , and why did you leave him " ? ? 
" There was nothing else I could do " , the maid answered , satisfied with a rather vague explanation . 
But Mrs. Mercer demanded more . 
The maid then told her , " Because he fired me " . 
With her son evidencing so strong a musical bent his mother could do little else but get him started on the study of music -- though she waited until he was ten -- beginning with the piano and following that with the trumpet . 
Young Mercer showed a remarkable lack of aptitude for both instruments . 
Still , he did like music making and even sang in the chapel choir of the Woodberry Forest School , near Orange , Virginia , where he sounded fine but did not matriculate too well . 
When he was fifteen John H. Mercer turned out his first song , a jazzy little thing he called " Sister Susie , Strut Your Stuff " . 
If his scholarship and formal musicianship were not all they might have been , Mercer demonstrated at an early age that he was gifted with a remarkable ear for rhythm and dialect . 
From his playmates in Savannah , Mercer had picked up , along with a soft Southern dialect , traces also of the Gullah dialects of Africa . 
Such speech differences made him acutely aware of the richness and expressivness of language . 
During the summers , while he was still in school , Mercer worked for his father 's firm as a messenger boy . 
It generally took well into the autumn for the firm to recover from the summer 's help . 
" We 'd give him things to deliver , letters , checks , deeds and things like that " , remembers his half-brother Walter , still in the real estate business in Savannah , " and learn days later that he 'd absent-mindedly stuffed them into his pocket . 
There they stayed " . 
This rather detached attitude toward life 's encumbrances has seemed to be the dominant trait in Mercer 's personality ever since . 
It is , however , a disarming disguise , or perhaps a shield , for not only has Mercer proved himself to be one of the few great lyricists over the years , but also one who can function remarkably under pressure . 
He has also enjoyed a successful career as an entertainer ( his records have sold in the millions ) and is a sharp businessman . 
He has also an extraordinary conscience . 
In 1927 his father 's business collapsed , and , rather than go bankrupt , Mercer senior turned his firm over to a bank for liquidation . 
He died before he could completely pay off his debts . 
Some years later the bank handling the Mercer liquidation received a check for $ 300,000 , enough to clear up the debt . 
The check had been mailed from Chicago , the envelope bore no return address , and the check was not signed . 
" That 's Johnny " , sighed the bank president , " the best-hearted boy in the world , but absent-minded " . 
But Mercer 's explanation was simple : " I made out the check and carried it around a few days unsigned -- in case I lost it " . 
When he remembered that he might have not signed the check , Mercer made out another for the same amount , instructing the bank to destroy the other -- especially if he had happened to have absent-mindedly signed both of them . 
When the family business failed , Mercer left school and on his mother 's urging -- for she hoped that he would become an actor -- he joined a local little theater group . 
When the troupe traveled to New York to participate in a one-act-play competition -- and won -- Mercer , instead of returning with the rest of the company in triumph , remained in New York . 
He had talked one other member of the group to stay with him , but that friend had tired of not eating regularly and returned to Savannah . 
But Mercer hung on , living , after a fashion , in a Greenwich Village fourth-flight walk-up . 
" The place had no sink or washbasin , only a bathtub " , his mother discovered when she visited him . 
" Johnny insisted on cooking a chicken dinner in my honor -- he 's always been a good cook -- and I 'll never forget him cleaning the chicken in the tub " . 
A story , no doubt apocryphal , for Mercer himself denies it , has him sporting a monacle in those Village days . 
Though merely clear glass , it was a distinctive trade mark for an aspiring actor who hoped to imprint himself upon the memories of producers . 
One day in a bar , so the legend goes , someone put a beer stein with too much force on the monacle and broke it . 
The innocent malfeasant , filled with that supreme sense of honor found in bars , insisted upon replacing the destroyed monacle -- and did , over the protests of the former owner -- with a square monacle . 
Mercer is supposed to have refused it with , " Anyone who wears a square monacle must be affected " ! ! 
Everett Miller , then assistant director for the Garrick Gaieties , a Theatre Guild production , needed a lyricist for a song he had written ; ; he just happened not to need any actor at the moment , however . 
For him Mercer produced the lyric to " Out Of Breath Scared To Death Of You " , introduced in that most successful of all the Gaieties , by Sterling Holloway . 
This 1930 edition also had songs in it by Vernon Duke and Ira Gershwin , by E.Y. Harburg and Duke , and by Harry Myers . 
Entrance into such stellar song writing company encouraged the burgeoning song writer to take a wife , Elizabeth Meehan , a dancer in the Gaieties . 
The Mercers took up residence in Brooklyn , and Mercer found a regular job in Wall Street " misplacing stocks and bonds " . 
When he heard that Paul Whiteman was looking for singers to replace the Rhythm Boys , Mercer applied and got the job , " not for my voice , I 'm sure , but because I could write songs and material generally " . 
While with the Whiteman band Mercer met Jerry Arlen . 
He had yet to meet Harold Arlen , for although they had " collaborated " on " Satan 's Li'l Lamb " , Mercer and Harburg had worked from a lead sheet the composer had furnished them . 
The lyric , Mercer remembers , was tailored to fit the unusual melody . 
Mercer 's Whiteman association brought him into contact with Hoagy Carmichael , whose " Snowball " Mercer relyriced as " Lazybones " , in which form it became a hit and marked the real beginning of Mercer 's song-writing career . 
After leaving Whiteman , Mercer joined the Benny Goodman band as a vocalist . 
With the help of Ziggy Elman , also in the band , he transformed a traditional Jewish melody into a popular song , " And The Angels Sing " . 
The countrywide success of " Lazybones " and " And The Angels Sing " could only lead to Hollywood , where , besides Harold Arlen , Mercer collaborated with Harry Warren , Jimmy Van Heusen , Richard Whiting , Walter Donaldson , Jerome Kern , and Arthur Schwartz . 
Mercer has also written both music and lyrics for several songs . 
He may be the only song writer ever to have collaborated with a secretary of the U.S. Treasury ; ; he collaborated on a song with William Hartman Woodin , who was Secretary of the Treasury , 1932-33 . 
When Johnny Mercer and Harold Arlen began their collaboration in 1940 , Mercer , like Arlen , had several substantial film songs to his credit , among them " Hooray For Hollywood " , " Ride , Tenderfoot , Ride " , " Have You Got Any Castles , Baby ? ? 
" , and " Too Marvelous For Words " ( all with Richard Whiting ) ; ; with Harry Warren he did " The Girl Friend Of The Whirling Dervish " , " Jeepers Creepers " , and " You Must Have Been A Beautiful Baby " . 
Mercer 's lyrics are characterized by an unerring ear for rhythmic nuances , a puckish sense of humor expressed in language with a colloquial flair . 
Though versatile and capable of turning out a ballad lyric with the best of them , Mercer 's forte is a highly polished quasi-folk wit . 
His casual , dreamlike working methods , often as not in absentia , were an abrupt change from Harburg 's , so that Arlen had to adjust again to another approach to collaboration . 
There were times that he worked with both lyricists simultaneously . 
Speaking of his work with Johnny Mercer , Arlen says , " Our working habits were strange . 
After we got a script and the spots for the songs were blocked out , we 'd get together for an hour or so every day . 
While Johnny made himself comfortable on the couch , I 'd play the tunes for him . 
He has a wonderfully retentive memory . 
After I would finish playing the songs , he 'd just go away without a comment . 
I would n't hear from him for a couple of weeks , then he 'd come around with the completed lyric " . 
Arlen is one of the few ( possibly the only ) composer Mercer has been able to work with so closely , for they held their meetings in Arlen 's study . 
" Some guys bothered me " , Mercer has said . 
" I could n't write with them in the same room with me , but I could with Harold . 
He is probably our most original composer ; ; he often uses very odd rhythms , which makes it difficult , and challenging , for the lyric writer " . 
While Arlen and Mercer collaborated on Hot Nocturne , Mercer worked also with Arthur Schwartz on another film , Navy Blues . 
Arlen , too , worked on other projects at the same time with old friend Ted Koehler . 
Besides doing a single song , " When The Sun Comes Out " , they worked on the ambitious American-Negro Suite , for voices and piano , as well as songs for films . 
The American-Negro Suite is in a sense an extension of the Cotton Club songs in that it is a collection of Negro songs , not for a night club , but for the concert stage . 
The work had its beginning in 1938 with an eight-bar musical strain to which Koehler set the words " There 'll be no more work ; ; there 'll be no more worry " , matching the spiritual feeling of the jot . 
This grew into the song " Big Time Comin ' " . 
By September 1940 the Suite had developed into a collection of six songs , " four spirituals , a dream , and a lullaby " . 
The Negro composer Hall Johnson studied the American-Negro Suite and said of it , " Of all the many songs written by white composers and employing what claims to be a Negroid idiom in both words and music , these six songs by Harold Arlen and Ted Koehler easily stand far out above the rest . 
Thoroughly modern in treatment , they are at the same time , full of simple sincerity which invariably characterizes genuine Negro folk-music and are by no means to be confused with the average ' Broadway Spirituals ' which depend for their racial flavor upon sundry allusions to the ' Amen Corner ' , ' judgement Day , ' Gabriel 's Horn , and a frustrated devil -- with a few random hallelujahs thrown in for good measure . 
