There were fences in the old days when we were children . 
Across the front of a yard and down the side , they were iron , either spiked along the top or arched in half circles . 
Alley fences were made of solid boards higher than one 's head , but not so high as the golden glow in a corner or the hollyhocks that grew in a line against them . 
Side fences were hidden beneath lilacs and hundred-leaf roses ; ; front fences were covered with Virginia creeper or trumpet vines or honeysuckle . 
Square corner - and gate posts were an open-work pattern of cast-iron foliage ; ; they were topped by steeples complete in every detail : high-pitched roof , pinnacle , and narrow gable . 
On these posts the gates swung open with a squeak and shut with a metallic clang . 
The only extended view possible to anyone less tall than the fences was that obtained from an upper bough of the apple tree . 
The primary quality of that view seems , now , to have been its quietness , but that can not at the time have impressed us . 
What one actually remembers is its greenness . 
From high in the tree , the whole block lay within range of the eye , but the ground was almost nowhere visible . 
One looked down on a sea of leaves , a breaking wave of flower . 
Every path from back door to barn was covered by a grape-arbor , and every yard had its fruit trees . 
In the center of any open space remaining our grandfathers had planted syringa and sweet-shrub , snowball , rose-of-Sharon and balm-of-Gilead . 
From above one could only occasionally catch a glimpse of life on the floor of this green sea : a neighbor 's gingham skirt flashing into sight for an instant on the path beneath her grape-arbor , or the movement of hands above a clothesline and the flutter of garments hung there , half-way down the block . 
That was one epoch : the apple-tree epoch . 
Another had ended before it began . 
Time is a queer thing and memory a queerer ; ; the tricks that time plays with memory and memory with time are queerest of all . 
From maturity one looks back at the succession of years , counts them and makes them many , yet can not feel length in the number , however large . 
In a stream that turns a mill-wheel there is a lot of water ; ; the mill-pond is quiet , its surface dark and shadowed , and there does not seem to be much water in it . 
Time in the sum is nothing . 
And yet -- a year to a child is an eternity , and in the memory that phase of one 's being -- a certain mental landscape -- will seem to have endured without beginning and without end . 
The part of the mind that preserves dates and events may remonstrate , " It could have been like that for only a little while " ; ; but true memory does not count nor add : it holds fast to things that were and they are outside of time . 
Once , then -- for how many years or how few does not matter -- my world was bound round by fences , when I was too small to reach the apple tree bough , to twist my knee over it and pull myself up . 
That world was in scale with my own smallness . 
I have no picture in my mind of the garden as a whole -- that I could not see -- but certain aspects of certain corners linger in the memory : wind-blown , frost-bitten , white chrysanthemums beneath a window , with their brittle brown leaves and their sharp scent of November ; ; ripe pears lying in long grass , to be turned over by a dusty-slippered foot , cautiously , lest bees still worked in the ragged , brown-edged holes ; ; hot-colored verbenas in the corner between the dining-room wall and the side porch , where we passed on our way to the pump with the half-gourd tied to it as a cup by my grandmother for our childish pleasure in drinking from it . 
It was mother who planted the verbenas . 
I think that my grandmother was not an impassioned gardener : she was too indulgent a lover of dogs and grandchildren . 
My great-grandmother , I have been told , made her garden her great pride ; ; she cherished rare and delicate plants like oleanders in tubs and wall-flowers and lemon verbenas in pots that had to be wintered in the cellar ; ; she filled the waste spots of the yard with common things like the garden heliotrope in a corner by the woodshed , and the plantain lilies along the west side of the house . 
These my grandmother left in their places ( they are still there , more persistent and longer-lived than the generations of man ) and planted others like them , that flourished without careful tending . 
Three of these only were protected from us by stern commandment : the roses , whose petals might not be collected until they had fallen , to be made into perfume or rose-tea to drink ; ; the peonies , whose tight sticky buds would be blighted by the laying on of a finger , although they were not apparently harmed by the ants that crawled over them ; ; and the poppies . 
I have more than once sat cross-legged in the grass through a long summer morning and watched without touching while a poppy bud higher than my head slowly but visibly pushed off its cap , unfolded , and shook out like a banner in the sun its flaming vermilion petals . 
Other flowers we might gather as we pleased : myrtle and white violets from beneath the lilacs ; ; the lilacs themselves , that bloomed so prodigally but for the most part beyond our reach ; ; snowballs ; ; hollyhock blossoms that , turned upside down , make pink-petticoated ladies ; ; and the little , dark blue larkspur that scattered its seed everywhere . 
More potent a charm to bring back that time of life than this record of a few pictures and a few remembered facts would be a catalogue of the minutiae which are of the very stuff of the mind , intrinsic , because they were known in the beginning not by the eye alone but by the hand that held them . 
Flowers , stones , and small creatures , living and dead . 
Pale yellow snapdragons that by pinching could be made to bite ; ; seed-pods of the balsams that snapped like fire-crackers at a touch ; ; red-and-yellow columbines whose round-tipped spurs were picked off and eaten for the honey in them ; ; morning-glory buds which could be so grasped and squeezed that they burst like a blown-up paper bag ; ; bright flowers from the trumpet vine that made " gloves " on the ends of ten waggling fingers . 
Fuzzy caterpillars , snails with their sensitive horns , struggling grasshoppers held by their long hind legs and commanded to " spit tobacco , spit " . 
Dead fledgling birds , their squashed-looking nakedness and the odor of decay that clung to the hand when they had been buried in our graveyard in front of the purple flags . 
And the cast shell of a locust , straw-colored and transparent , weighing nothing , fragile but entire , with eyes like bubbles and a gaping slit down its back . 
Every morning early , in the summer , we searched the trunks of the trees as high as we could reach for the locust shells , carefully detached their hooked claws from the bark where they hung , and stabled them , a weird faery herd , in an angle between the high roots of the tulip tree , where no grass grew in the dense shade . 
We collected " lucky stones " -- all the creamy translucent pebbles , worn smooth and round , that we could find in the driveway . 
When these had been pocketed , we could still spend a morning cracking open other pebbles for our delight in seeing how much prettier they were inside than their dull exteriors indicated . 
We showed them to each other and said " Would you have guessed " ? ? 
Squatting on our haunches beside the flat stone we broke them on , we were safe behind the high closed gates at the end of the drive : safe from interruption and the observation and possible amusement of the passers-by . 
Thus shielded , we played many foolish games in comfortable unselfconsciousness ; ; even when the fences became a part of the game -- when a vine-embowered gate-post was the Sleeping Beauty 's enchanted castle , or when Rapunzel let down her golden hair from beneath the crocketed spire , even then we paid little heed to those who went by on the path outside . 
We enjoyed a paradoxical freedom when we were still too young for school . 
In the heat of the summer , the garden solitudes were ours alone ; ; our elders stayed in the dark house or sat fanning on the front porch . 
They never troubled themselves about us while we were playing , because the fence formed such a definite boundary and " Do n't go outside the gate " was a command so impossible of misinterpretation . 
We were not , however , entirely unacquainted with the varying aspects of the street . 
We were forbidden to swing on the gates , lest they sag on their hinges in a poor-white-trash way , but we could stand on them , when they were latched , rest our chins on the top , and stare and stare , committing to memory , quite unintentionally , all the details that lay before our eyes . 
The street that is full now of traffic and parked cars then and for many years drowsed on an August afternoon in the shade of the curbside trees , and silence was a weight , almost palpable , in the air . 
Every slight sound that rose against that pressure fell away again , crushed beneath it . 
A hay-wagon moved slowly along the gutter , the top of it swept by the low boughs of the maple trees , and loose straws were left hanging tangled among the leaves . 
A wheel squeaked on a hub , was still , and squeaked again . 
If a child watched its progress he whispered , " Hay , hay , load of hay -- make a wish and turn away " , and then stared rigidly in the opposite direction until the sound of the horses ' feet returned no more . 
When the hay wagon had gone , and an interval passed , a huckster 's cart might turn the corner . 
The horse walked , the reins were slack , the huckster rode with bowed shoulders , his forearms across his knees . 
Sleepily , as if half-reluctant to break the silence , he lifted his voice : " Rhu-beb-ni-ice nice fresh rhu-beb today " ! ! 
The lazy sing-song was spaced in time like the drone of a bumble-bee . 
No one seemed to hear him , no one heeded . 
The horse plodded on , and he repeated his call . 
It became so monotonous as to seem a part of the quietness . 
After his passage , the street was empty again . 
The sun moved slant-wise across the sky and down ; ; the trees ' shadows circled from street to sidewalk , from sidewalk to lawn . 
At four-o'clock , or four-thirty , the coming of the newsboy marked the end of the day ; ; he tossed a paper toward every front door , and housewives came down to their steps to pick them up and read what their neighbors had been doing . 
The streets of any county town were like this on any sunshiny afternoon in summer ; ; they were like this fifty-odd years ago , and yesterday . 
But the fences were still in place fifty-odd years ago , and when we stood on the gate to look over , the sidewalk under our eyes was not cement but two rows of paving stones with grass between and on both sides . 
The curb was a line of stone laid edgewise in the dirt and tilted this way and that by frost in the ground or the roots of trees . 
Opposite every gate was a hitching post or a stone carriage-step , set with a rusty iron ring for tying a horse . 
The street was unpaved and rose steeply toward the center ; ; it was mud in wet weather and dust , ankle-deep , in dry , and could be crossed only at the corner where there were stepping stones . 
It had a bucolic atmosphere that it has lost long since . 
The hoofmarks of cattle and the prints of bare feet in the mud or in the dust were as numerous as the traces of shod horses . 
Cows were kept in backyard barns , boys were hired to drive them to and from the pasture on the edge of town , and familiar to the ear , morning and evening , were the boys ' coaxing voices , the thud of hooves , and the thwack of a stick on cowhide . 
