Once again , as in the days of the Founding Fathers , America faces a stern test . 
That test , as President Kennedy forthrightly depicted it in his State of the Union message , will determine " whether a nation organized and governed such as ours can endure " . 
It is well then that in this hour both of " national peril " and of " national opportunity " we can take counsel with the men who made the nation . 
Incapable of self-delusion , the Founding Fathers found the crisis of their time to be equally grave , and yet they had confidence that America would surmount it and that a republic of free peoples would prosper and serve as an example to a world aching for liberty . 
Seven Founders -- George Washington , Benjamin Franklin , John Adams , Thomas Jefferson , Alexander Hamilton , James Madison and John Jay -- determined the destinies of the new nation . 
In certain respects , their task was incomparably greater than ours today , for there was nobody before them to show them the way . 
As Madison commented to Jefferson in 1789 , " We are in a wilderness without a single footstep to guide us . 
Our successors will have an easier task " . 
They thought of themselves , to use Jefferson 's words , as " the Argonauts " who had lived in " the Heroic Age " . 
Accordingly , they took special pains to preserve their papers as essential sources for posterity . 
Their writings assume more than dramatic or patriotic interest because of their conviction that the struggle in which they were involved was neither selfish nor parochial but , rather , as Washington in his last wartime circular reminded his fellow countrymen , that " with our fate will the destiny of unborn millions be involved " . 
Strong men with strong opinions , frank to the point of being refreshingly indiscreet , the Founding Seven were essentially congenial minds , and their agreements with each other were more consequential than their differences . 
Even though in most cases the completion of the definitive editions of their writings is still years off , enough documentation has already been assembled to warrant drawing a new composite profile of the leadership which performed the heroic dual feats of winning American independence and founding a new nation . 
Before merging them into a common profile it is well to remember that their separate careers were extraordinary . 
Certainly no other seven American statesmen from any later period achieved so much in so concentrated a span of years . 
Eldest of the seven , Benjamin Franklin , a New Englander transplanted to Philadelphia , wrote the most dazzling success story in our history . 
The young printer 's apprentice achieved greatness in a half-dozen different fields , as editor and publisher , scientist , inventor , philanthropist and statesman . 
Author of the Albany Plan Of Union , which , had it been adopted , might have avoided the Revolution , he fought the colonists ' front-line battles in London , negotiated the treaty of alliance with France and the peace that ended the war , headed the state government of Pennsylvania , and exercised an important moderating influence at the Federal Convention . 
On a military mission for his native Virginia the youthful George Washington touched off the French and Indian War , then guarded his colony 's frontier as head of its militia . 
Commanding the Continental Army for six long years of the Revolution , he was the indispensable factor in the ultimate victory . 
Retiring to his beloved Mount Vernon , he returned to preside over the Federal Convention , and was the only man in history to be unanimously elected President . 
During his two terms the Constitution was tested and found workable , strong national policies were inaugurated , and the traditions and powers of the Presidential office firmly fixed . 
John Adams fashioned much of pre-Revolutionary radical ideology , wrote the constitution of his home state of Massachusetts , negotiated , with Franklin and Jay , the peace with Britain and served as our first Vice President and our second President . 
His political opponent and lifetime friend , Thomas Jefferson , achieved immortality through his authorship of the Declaration of Independence , but equally notable were the legal and constitutional reforms he instituted in his native Virginia , his role as father of our territorial system , and his acquisition of the Louisiana Territory during his first term as President . 
During the greater part of Jefferson 's career he enjoyed the close collaboration of a fellow Virginian , James Madison , eight years his junior . 
The active sponsor of Jefferson 's measure for religious liberty in Virginia , Madison played the most influential single role in the drafting of the Constitution and in securing its ratification in Virginia , founded the first political party in American history , and , as Jefferson 's Secretary of State and his successor in the Presidency , guided the nation through the troubled years of our second war with Britain . 
If Franklin was an authentic genius , then Alexander Hamilton , with his exceptional precocity , consuming energy , and high ambition , was a political prodigy . 
His revolutionary pamphlets , published when he was only 19 , quickly brought him to the attention of the patriot leaders . 
Principal author of " The Federalist " , he swung New York over from opposition to the Constitution to ratification almost single-handedly . 
His collaboration with Washington , begun when he was the general 's aide during the Revolution , was resumed when he entered the first Cabinet as Secretary of the Treasury . 
His bold fiscal program and his broad interpretation of the Constitution stand as durable contributions . 
Less dazzling than Hamilton , less eloquent than Jefferson , John Jay commands an equally high rank among the Founding Fathers . 
He served as president of the Continental Congress . 
He played the leading role in negotiating the treaty with Great Britain that ended the Revolution , and directed America 's foreign affairs throughout the Confederation period . 
As first Chief Justice , his strong nationalist opinions anticipated John Marshall . 
He ended his public career as a two-term governor of New York . 
These Seven Founders constituted an intellectual and social elite , the most respectable and disinterested leadership any revolution ever confessed . 
Their social status was achieved in some cases by birth , as with Washington , Jefferson and Jay ; ; in others by business and professional acumen , as with Franklin and Adams , or , in Hamilton 's case , by an influential marriage . 
Unlike so many of the power-starved intellectuals in underdeveloped nations of our own day , they commanded both prestige and influence before the Revolution started . 
As different physically as the tall , angular Jefferson was from the chubby , rotund Adams , the seven were striking individualists . 
Ardent , opinionated , even obstinate , they were amazingly articulate , wrote their own copy , and were masters of phrasemaking . 
Capable of enduring friendships , they were also stout controversialists , who could write with a drop of vitriol on their pens . 
John Adams dismissed John Dickinson , who voted against the Declaration of Independence , as " a certain great fortune and piddling genius " . 
Washington castigated his critic , General Conway , as being capable of " all the meanness of intrigue to gratify the absurd resentment of disappointed vanity " . 
And Hamilton , who felt it " a religious duty " to oppose Aaron Burr 's political ambitions , would have been a better actuarial risk had he shown more literary restraint . 
The Seven Founders were completely dedicated to the public service . 
Madison once remarked : " My life has been so much a public one " , a comment which fits the careers of the other six . 
Franklin retired from editing and publishing at the age of 42 , and for the next forty-two years devoted himself to public , scientific , and philanthropic interests . 
Washington never had a chance to work for an extended stretch at the occupation he loved best , plantation management . 
He served as Commander in Chief during the Revolution without compensation . 
John Adams took to heart the advice given him by his legal mentor , Jeremiah Gridley , to " pursue the study of the law , rather than the gain of it " . 
In taking account of seventeen years of law practice , Adams concluded that " no lawyer in America ever did so much business as I did " and " for so little profit " . 
When the Revolution broke out , he , along with Jefferson and Jay , abandoned his career at the bar , with considerable financial sacrifice . 
Hamilton , poorest of the seven , gave up a brilliant law practice to enter Washington 's Cabinet . 
While he was handling the multi-million-dollar funding operations of the Government he had to resort to borrowing small sums from friends . 
" If you can conveniently let me have twenty dollars " , he wrote one friend in 1791 when he was Secretary of the Treasury . 
To support his large family Hamilton went back to the law after each spell of public service . 
Talleyrand passed his New York law office one night on the way to a party . 
Hamilton was bent over his desk , drafting a legal paper by the light of a candle . 
The Frenchman was astonished . 
" I have just come from viewing a man who had made the fortune of his country , but now is working all night in order to support his family " , he reflected . 
All seven combined ardent devotion to the cause of revolution with a profound respect for legality . 
John Adams asserted in the Continental Congress ' Declaration of Rights that the demands of the colonies were in accordance with their charters , the British Constitution and the common law , and Jefferson appealed in the Declaration of Independence " to the tribunal of the world " for support of a revolution justified by " the laws of nature and of nature 's God " . 
They fought hard , but they were forgiving to former foes , and sought to prevent vindictive legislatures from confiscating Tory property in violation of the Treaty of 1783 . 
This sense of moderation and fairness is superbly exemplified in an exchange of letters between John Jay and a Tory refugee , Peter Van Schaack . 
Jay had participated in the decision that exiled his old friend Van Schaack . 
Yet when , at war 's end , the ex-Tory made the first move to resume correspondence , Jay wrote him from Paris , where he was negotiating the peace settlement : " As an independent American I considered all who were not for us , and you amongst the rest , as against us , yet be assured that John Jay never ceased to be the friend of Peter Van Schaack " . 
The latter in turn assured him that " were I arraigned at the bar , and you my judge , I should expect to stand or fall only by the merits of my cause " . 
All seven recognized that independence was but the first step toward building a nation . 
" We have now a national character to establish " , Washington wrote in 1783 . 
" Think continentally " , Hamilton counseled the young nation . 
This new force , love of country , super-imposed upon -- if not displacing -- affectionate ties to one 's own state , was epitomized by Washington . 
His first inaugural address speaks of " my country whose voice I can never hear but with veneration and love " . 
All sought the fruition of that nationalism in a Federal Government with substantial powers . 
Save Jefferson , all participated in the framing or ratification of the Federal Constitution . 
They supported it , not as a perfect instrument , but as the best obtainable . 
Historians have traditionally regarded the great debates of the Seventeen Nineties as polarizing the issues of centralized vs. limited government , with Hamilton and the nationalists supporting the former and Jefferson and Madison upholding the latter position . 
The state 's rights position was formulated by Jefferson and Madison in the Kentucky and Virginia Resolves , but in their later careers as heads of state the two proved themselves better Hamiltonians than Jeffersonians . 
In purchasing Louisiana , Jefferson had to adopt Hamilton 's broad construction of the Constitution , and so did Madison in advocating the rechartering of Hamilton 's bank , which he had so strenuously opposed at its inception , and in adopting a Hamiltonian protective tariff . 
Indeed , the old Jeffersonians were far more atune to the Hamilton-oriented Whigs than they were to the Jacksonian Democrats . 
When , in 1832 , the South Carolina nullifiers adopted the principle of state interposition which Madison had advanced in his old Virginia Resolve , they elicited no encouragement from that senior statesman . 
In his political testament , " Advice To My Country " , penned just before his death , Madison expressed the wish " that the Union of the States be cherished and perpetuated . 
Let the open enemy to it be regarded as a Pandora with her box opened ; ; and the disguised one , as the serpent creeping with his deadly wiles into Paradise " . 
