Mickie sat over his second whisky-on-the-rocks in a little bar next to the funeral parlor on Pennsylvania Avenue . 
Al 's Little Cafe was small , dark , narrow , and filled with the mingled scent of beer , tobacco smoke , and Italian cooking . 
Hanging over the bar was an oil painting of a nude Al had accepted from a student at the Corcoran Gallery who needed to eat and drink and was broke . 
The nude was small and black-haired and elfin , and was called " Eloise " . 
This was one place where Moonan could go for a drink in a back booth without anyone noticing him , or at least coming up and hanging around and wanting to know all the low-down . 
The other patrons were taxi drivers and art students and small shopkeepers . 
The reporters had not yet discovered that this was his hideaway . 
His friend Jane was with him . 
She was wise enough to realize a man could be good company even if he did weigh too much and did n't own the mint . 
She was the widow of a writer who had died in an airplane crash , and Mickie had found her a job as head of the historical section of the Treasury . 
This meant sorting out press clippings and the like . 
Jane sat receptive and interested . 
Mickie had a pleasant glow as he said , " You see , both of them , I mean the President and Jeff Lawrence , are romantics . 
A romantic is one who thinks the world is divinely inspired and all he has to do is find the right key , and then divine justice and altruism will appear . 
It 's like focusing a camera ; ; the distant ship is n't there until you get the focus . 
You know what I 'm talking about . 
I 'm sure all girls feel this way about men until they live with them . 
" But when it comes to war , the Colonel knows what it is and Jeff does n't . 
Mr. Christiansen knows that a soldier will get the Distinguished Service Medal for conduct that would land him in prison for life or the electric chair as a civilian . 
He had a mean , unbroken sheer bastard in his outfit , and someone invented the name Trig for him . 
That 's to say , he was trigger happy . 
He 'd shoot at anything if it was the rear end of a horse or his own sentry . 
He was a wiry , inscrutable , silent country boy from the red clay of rural Alabama , and he spoke with the broad drawl that others normally make fun of . 
But not in front of Trig . 
I heard of some that tried it back in the States , and he 'd knock them clear across the room . 
There 'd been a pretty bad incident back at the Marine base . 
A New York kid , a refugee from one of the Harlem gangs , made fun of Trig 's accent , and drew a knife . 
Before the fight was over , the Harlem boy had a concussion and Trig was cut up badly . 
They caught Trig stealing liquor from the officers ' mess , and he got a couple of girls in trouble . 
The fear of punishment just did n't bother him . 
It was n't there . 
It was left out of him at birth . 
This is why he made such a magnificent soldier . 
He was n't troubled with the ordinary , rank-and-file fear that overcomes and paralyzes and sends individual soldiers and whole companies under fire running in panic . 
It just did n't occur to Trig that anything serious would happen to him . 
Do you get the picture of the kind of fellow he was " ? ? 
Jane nodded with a pleasant smile . 
" All right . 
There was a sniper 's nest in a mountain cave , and it was picking off our men with devilish accuracy . 
The Colonel ordered that it be wiped out , and I suggested , ' You ask for volunteers , and promise each man on the patrol a quart of whisky , ten dollars and a week-end pass to Davao . 
Trig was one of the five volunteers . 
The patrol snaked around in back of the cave , approached it from above and dropped in suddenly with wild howls . 
You could hear them from our outpost . 
There was a lot of shooting . 
We knew the enemy was subdued , because a flare was fired as the signal . 
So we hurried over . 
Two of our men were killed , a third was wounded . 
Trig and a very black colored boy from Detroit had killed or put out of action ten guerrillas by grenades and hand-to-hand fighting . 
When we got there , Trig and the Negro were quarreling over possession of a gold crucifix around the neck of a wounded Filipino . 
The colored boy had it , and Trig lunged at him with a knife and said , ' Give that to me , you black bastard . 
We do n't 'low nigras to walk on the same sidewalk with white men where I come from . 
" The Negro got a bad slice on his chest from the knife wound " . 
" What did the Colonel do about the men " ? ? 
Jane asked in her placid , interested way . 
Mickie laughed . 
" He recommended both of them for the DSM and the Detroit fellow for the Purple Heart , too , for a combat-inflicted wound . 
So you see Mr. Christiansen knows what it 's all about . 
But not Jeff Lawrence . 
When he was in the war , he was in Law or Supplies or something like that , and an old buddy of his told me he would come down on Sundays to the Pentagon and read the citations for medals -- just like the one we sent in for Trig -- and go away with a real glow . 
These were heroes nine feet tall to him " . 
Jefferson Lawrence was alone at the small , perfectly appointed table by the window looking out over the river . 
He had dinner and sat there over his coffee watching the winding pattern of traffic as it crossed the bridge and spread out like a serpent with two heads . 
Beside him was Mrs. Dalloway . 
He thought how this dainty , fragile older woman threading her way through the streets of Westminster on a day in June , enjoying the flowers in the shops , the greetings from old friends , but never really drawing a deep , passionate breath , was so like himself . 
He , and Mrs. Dalloway , too , had never permitted themselves the luxury of joys that dug into the bone marrow of the spirit . 
He had not because he was both poor and ambitious . 
Poverty imposes a kind of chastity on the ambitious . 
They can not stop to grasp and embrace and sit in the back seat of cars along a dark country lane . 
No , they must look the other way and climb one more painful step up the ladder . 
He made the decision with his eyes open , or so he thought . 
At any cost , he must leave the dreary Pennsylvania mining town where his father was a pharmacist . 
And so he had , so he had . 
At State College , he had no time to walk among the violets on the water 's edge . 
From his room he could look out in springtime and see the couples hand in hand walking slowly , deliciously , across the campus , and he could smell the sweet vernal winds . 
He was not stone . 
He was not unmoved . 
He had to teach himself patiently that these traps were not for him . 
He must mentally pull the blinds and close the window , so that all that existed was in the books before him . 
At law school , the same . 
More of this stamping down of human emotion as a young lawyer in New York . 
By the time he was prosperous enough -- his goals were high -- he was bald and afraid of women . 
The only one who would have him was his cripple , the strange unhappy woman who became his wife . 
Perhaps it was right ; ; perhaps it was just . 
He had dared to defy nature , to turn his back to the Lorelei , and he was punished . 
Like Mrs. Dalloway , with her regrets about Peter Walsh , he had his moments of melancholy over a youth too well spent . 
If he had had a son , he would tell him , " Gather ye rosebuds while ye may This same flower that smiles today tomorrow will be dying " . 
But then his son could afford it . 
Lawrence was waiting for Bill Boxell . 
The Vice President had called and asked if he could see the Secretary at his home . 
He said the matter was urgent . 
The Secretary was uneasy about the visit . 
He did not like Boxell . 
He suspected something underhanded and furtive about him . 
Lawrence could not put his finger on it precisely , and this worried him . 
When you disliked or distrusted a man , you should have a reason . 
Human nature was not a piece of meat you could tell was bad by its smell . 
Lawrence stared a minute at the lighted ribbon of traffic , hoping that a clue to his dislike of the Vice President would appear . 
It did not . 
Therefore , he decided he was unfair to the young man and should make an effort to understand and sympathize with his point of view . 
A half hour later the Vice President arrived . 
He looked very carefully at every piece of furnishing , as though hoping to store this information carefully in his mind . 
He observed the Florentine vase in the hall , the Renoir painting in the library , as well as the long shelves of well-bound volumes ; ; the pattern of the Oriental rug , the delicate cut-glass chandelier . 
He said to the Secretary , " I understand you came from a little Pennsylvania town near Wilkes-Barre . 
How did you find out about this " ? ? 
He waved his arm around at the furnishings . 
It was not a discourteous question , Lawrence decided . 
This young man had so little time to learn he had to be curious ; ; he had to find out . 
The Secretary did not tell him at what cost , at what loneliness , he learned these things . 
He merely said , " Any good decorator these days can make you a tasteful home " . 
The Vice President said , " If you hear of any names that would fix me cheap in return for advertising they decorated the Vice President 's home , let me know . 
I can do business with that kind " . 
Again , Lawrence thought a little sadly , these were the fees of poverty and ambition . 
Boxell did not have the chance to grow up graciously . 
He had to acquire everything he was going to get in four years . 
They had brandy in the library . 
Boxell looked at Lawrence with a searching glance , the kind that a prosecuting attorney would give a man on trial . 
What are your weaknesses ? ? 
Where will you break ? ? 
How best to destroy your peace ? ? 
The Vice President said with a slight bluster , " There is n't anyone who loves the President more than I do . 
Old Chris is my ideal . 
At the same time , you have to face facts and realize that a man who 's been in the Marine Corps all his life does n't understand much about politics . 
What does a monk know about sex " ? ? 
Lawrence listened with the practiced , deceptive calm of the lawyer , but his face was in the shadow . 
" So , we have to protect the old man for his own good . 
You see what I mean . 
Congress is full of politicians , and if you want to get along with them , you have to be politic . 
This is why I say we just ca n't go ahead and disarm the Germans and pull down our own defenses . 
Let me tell you what happened to me today . 
A fellow came up to me , a Senator , I do n't have to tell you his name , and he told me , ' I love the President like a brother , but God damn it , he 's crucifying me . 
I 've got a quarter of a million Germans in my state , and those krautheads tune in on Father Werther every night , and if he tells them to go out and piss in the public square , that 's what they do . 
He 's telling them now to write letters to their Congressmen opposing the disarmament of Germany . 
And another one comes to me and he says , ' Look here , there 's a mill in my state employs five thousand people making uniforms for the Navy . 
