Burly leathered men and wrinkled women in drab black rags carried on in a primitive way , almost unchanged from feudal times . 
Peasants puzzled Andrei . 
He wondered how they could go on in poverty , superstition , ignorance , with a complete lack of desire to make either their land or their lives flourish . 
Andrei remembered a Bathyran meeting long ago . 
Tolek Alterman had returned from the colonies in Palestine and , before the national leadership , exalted the miracles of drying up swamps and irrigating the desert . 
A fund-raising drive to buy tractors and machinery was launched . 
Andrei remembered that his own reaction had been one of indifference . 
Had he found the meaning too late ? ? 
It aggravated him . 
The land of the Lublin Uplands was rich , but no one seemed to care . 
In the unfertile land in Palestine humans broke their backs pushing will power to the brink . 
He had sat beside Alexander Brandel at the rostrum of a congress of Zionists . 
All of them were there in this loosely knit association of diversified ideologies , and each berated the other and beat his breast for his own approaches . 
When Alexander Brandel rose to speak , the hall became silent . 
" I do not care if your beliefs take you along a path of religion or a path of labor or a path of activism . 
We are here because all our paths travel a blind course through a thick forest , seeking human dignity . 
Beyond the forest all our paths merge into a single great highway which ends in the barren , eroded hills of Judea . 
This is our singular goal . 
How we travel through the forest is for each man 's conscience . 
Where we end our journey is always the same . 
We all seek the same thing through different ways -- an end to this long night of two thousand years of darkness and unspeakable abuses which will continue to plague us until the Star of David flies over Zion " . 
This was how Alexander Brandel expressed pure Zionism . 
It had sounded good to Andrei , but he did not believe it . 
In his heart he had no desire to go to Palestine . 
He loathed the idea of drying up swamps or the chills of malaria or of leaving his natural birthright . 
Before he went into battle Andrei had told Alex , " I only want to be a Pole . 
Warsaw is my city , not Tel Aviv " . 
And now Andrei sat on a train on the way to Lublin and wondered if he was not being punished for his lack of belief . 
Warsaw ! ! 
He saw the smug eyes of the Home Army chief , Roman , and all the Romans and the faces of the peasants who held only hatred for him . 
They had let this black hole of death in Warsaw 's heart exist without a cry of protest . 
Once there had been big glittering rooms where Ulanys bowed and kissed the ladies ' hands as they flirted from behind their fans . 
Warsaw ! ! 
Warsaw ! ! 
" Miss Rak . 
I am a Jew " . 
Day by day , week by week , month by month , the betrayal gnawed at Andrei 's heart . 
He ground his teeth together . 
I hate Warsaw , he said to himself . 
I hate Poland and all the goddamned mothers ' sons of them . 
All of Poland is a coffin . 
The terrible vision of the ghetto streets flooded his mind . 
What matters now ? ? 
What is beyond this fog ? ? 
Only Palestine , and I will never live to see Palestine because I did not believe . 
By late afternoon the train inched into the marshaling yards in the railhead at Lublin , which was filled with lines of cars poised to pour the tools of war to the Russian front . 
At a siding , another train which was a familiar sight these days . 
Deportees . 
Jews . 
Andrei 's skilled eye sized them up . 
They were not Poles . 
He guessed by their appearance that they were Rumanians . 
He walked toward the center of the city to keep his rendezvous with Styka . 
Of all the places in Poland , Andrei hated Lublin the most . 
The Bathyrans were all gone . 
Few of the native Jews who had lived in Lublin were still in the ghetto . 
From the moment of the occupation Lublin became a focal point . 
He and Ana watched it carefully . 
Lublin generally was the forerunner of what would happen elsewhere . 
Early in 1939 , Odilo Globocnik , the Gauleiter of Vienna , established SS headquarters for all of Poland . 
The Bathyrans ran a check on Globocnik and had only to conclude that he was in a tug of war with Hans Frank and the civilian administrators . 
Globocnik built the Death's-Head Corps . 
Lublin was the seed of action for the " final solution " of the Jewish problem . 
As the messages from Himmler , Heydrich , and Eichmann came in through Alfred Funk , Lublin 's fountainhead spouted . 
A bevy of interlacing lagers , work camps , concentration camps erupted in the area . 
Sixty thousand Jewish prisoners of war disappeared into Lublin 's web . 
Plans went in and out of Lublin , indicating German confusion . 
A tale of a massive reservation in the Uplands to hold several million Jews A tale of a plan to ship all Jews to the island of Madagascar Stories of the depravity of the guards at Globocnik 's camps struck a chord of terror at the mere mention of their names . 
Lipowa 7 , Sobibor , Chelmno , Poltawa , Belzec , Krzywy-Rog , Budzyn , Krasnik . 
Ice baths , electric shocks , lashings , wild dogs , testicle crushers . 
The Death's-Head Corps took in Ukrainian and Baltic Auxiliaries , and the Einsatzkommandos waded knee-deep in blood and turned into drunken , dope-ridden maniacs . 
Lublin was their heart . 
In the spring of 1942 Operation Reinhard began in Lublin . 
The ghetto , a miniature of Warsaw 's , was emptied into the camp in the Majdan-Tartarski suburb called Majdanek . 
As the camp emptied , it was refilled by a draining of the camps and towns around Lublin , then by deportees from outside Poland . 
In and in and in they poured through the gates of Majdanek , but they never left , and Majdanek was not growing any larger . 
What was happening in Majdanek ? ? 
Was Operation Reinhard the same pattern for the daily trains now leaving the Umschlagplatz in Warsaw ? ? 
Was there another Majdanek in the Warsaw area , as they suspected ? ? 
Andrei stopped at Litowski Place and looked around quickly at the boundary of civil buildings . 
His watch told him he was still early . 
Down the boulevard he could see a portion of the ghetto wall . 
He found an empty bench , opened a newspaper , and stretched his legs before him . 
Krakow Boulevard was filled with black Nazi uniforms and the dirty brownish ones of their Auxiliaries . 
" Captain Androfski " ! ! 
Andrei glanced up over the top of the paper and looked into the mustached , homely face of Sergeant Styka . 
Styka sat beside him and pumped his hand excitedly . 
" I have been waiting across the street at the post office since dawn . 
I thought you might get in on a morning train " . 
" It 's good to see you again , Styka " . 
Styka studied his captain . 
He almost broke into tears . 
To him , Andrei Androfski had always been the living symbol of a Polish officer . 
His captain was thin and haggard and his beautiful boots were worn and shabby . 
" Remember to call me Jan " , Andrei said . 
Styka nodded and sniffed and blew his nose vociferously . 
" When that woman found me and told me that you needed me I was never so happy since before the war " . 
" I 'm lucky that you were still living in Lublin " . 
Styka grumbled about fate . 
" For a time I thought of trying to reach the Free Polish Forces , but one thing led to another . 
I got a girl in trouble and we had to get married . 
Not a bad girl . 
So we have three children and responsibilities . 
I work at the granary . 
Nothing like the old days in the army , but I get by . 
Who complains ? ? 
Many times I tried to reach you , but I never knew how . 
I came to Warsaw twice , but there was that damned ghetto wall " " I understand " . 
Styka blew his nose again . 
" Were you able to make the arrangements " ? ? 
Andrei asked . 
" There is a man named Grabski who is the foreman in charge of the bricklayers at Majdanek . 
I did exactly as instructed . 
I told him you are on orders from the Home Army to get inside Majdanek so you can make a report to the government in exile in London " . 
" His answer " ? ? 
" Ten thousand zlotys " . 
" Can he be trusted " ? ? 
" He is aware he will not live for twenty-four hours if he betrays you " . 
" Good man , Styka " . 
" Captain Jan must you go inside Majdanek ? ? 
The stories Everyone really knows what is happening there " . 
" Not everyone , Styka " . 
" What good will it really do " ? ? 
" I do n't know . 
Perhaps perhaps there is a shred of conscience left in the human race . 
Perhaps if they know the story there will be a massive cry of indignation " . 
" Do you really believe that , Jan " ? ? 
" I have to believe it " . 
Styka shook his head slowly . 
" I am only a simple soldier . 
I can not think things out too well . 
Until I was transferred into the Seventh Ulanys I was like every other Pole in my feeling about Jews . 
I hated you when I first came in . 
But my captain might have been a Jew , but he was n't a Jew . 
What I mean is , he was a Pole and the greatest soldier in the Ulanys . 
Hell , sir . 
The men of our company had a dozen fights defending your name . 
You never knew about it , but by God , we taught them respect for Captain Androfski " . 
Andrei smiled . 
" Since the war I have seen the way the Germans have behaved and I think , Holy Mother , we have behaved like this for hundreds of years . 
Why " ? ? 
" How can you tell an insane man to reason or a blind man to see " ? ? 
" But we are neither blind nor insane . 
The men of your company would not allow your name dishonored . 
Why do we let the Germans do this " ? ? 
" I have sat many hours with this , Styka . 
All I ever wanted was to be a free man in my own country . 
I 've lost faith , Styka . 
I used to love this country and believe that someday we 'd win our battle for equality . 
But now I think I hate it very much " . 
" And do you really think that the world outside Poland will care any more than we do " ? ? 
The question frightened Andrei . 
" Please do n't go inside Majdanek " . 
" I 'm still a soldier in a very small way , Styka " . 
It was an answer that Styka understood . 
Grabski 's shanty was beyond the bridge over the River Bystrzyca near the rail center . 
Grabski sat in a sweat-saturated undershirt , cursing the excessive heat which clamped an uneasy stillness before sundown . 
He was a square brick of a man with a moon-round face and sunken Polish features . 
Flies swarmed around the bowl of lentils in which he mopped thick black bread . 
Half of it dripped down his chin . 
He washed it down with beer and produced a deep-seated belch . 
" Well " ? ? 
Andrei demanded . 
Grabski looked at the pair of them . 
He grunted a sort of " yes " answer . 
" My cousin works at the Labor Bureau . 
He can make you work papers . 
It will take a few days . 
I will get you inside the guard camp as a member of my crew . 
I do n't know if I can get you into the inner camp . 
Maybe yes , maybe no , but you can observe everything from the roof of a barrack we are building " . 
Grabski slurped his way to the bottom of the soup bowl . 
" Ca n't understand why the hell anyone wants to go inside that son-of-a-bitch place " . 
" Orders from the Home Army " . 
" Why ? ? 
Nothing there but Jews " . 
Andrei shrugged . 
" We get strange orders " . 
" Well -- what about the money " ? ? 
Andrei peeled off five one-thousand-zloty notes . 
Grabski had never seen so much money . 
His broad flat fingers , petrified into massive sausages by years of bricklaying , snatched the bills clumsily . 
" This ai n't enough " . 
" You get the rest when I 'm safely out of Majdanek " . 
" I ai n't taking no goddamned chances for no Jew business " . 
Andrei and Styka were silent . 
