It was not as though she noted clearly that her nephews had not been to see her for ten years , not since their last journey eastward to witness their Uncle Izaak being lowered into the rocky soil ; ; that aside from due notification of certain major events in their lives ( two marriages , two births , one divorce ) , Christmas and Easter cards of the traditional sort had been the only thin link she had with them through the widowed years . 
Her thoughts were not discrete . 
But there was a look about her mouth as though she were tasting lemons . 
She grasped the chair arms and brought her thin body upright , like a bird alert for flight . 
She turned and walked stiffly into the parlor to the dainty-legged escritoire , warped and cracked now from fifty years in an atmosphere of sea spray . 
There she extracted two limp vellum sheets and wrote off the letters , one to Abel , one to Mark . 
Once her trembling hand , with the pen grasped tight in it , was pressed against the paper the words came sharply , smoothly , as authoritatively as they would dropping from her own lips . 
And the stiffly regal look of them , she saw grimly , lacked the quaver of age which , thwarting the efforts of her amazing will , ran through her spoken words like a thin ragged string . 
" Please come down as soon as you conveniently can " , the upright letters stalked from the broad-nibbed pen , " I have an important matter to discuss with you " . 
To Abel : " I am afraid there is not much to amuse small children here . 
I should be obliged if you could make other arrangements for your daughters . 
You may stay as long as you wish , of course , but if arranging for the care of the girls must take time into account , I think a day or two should be enough to finish our business in " . 
To Mark : " Please give my regards to Myra " . 
She signed the letters quickly , stamped them , and placed them on the hall table for Raphael to mail in town . 
Then she went back to the wicker chair and resolutely adjusted her eyes to the glare on the water . 
" My nephews will be coming down " , she said that evening as Angelina brought her dinner into the dining room , the whole meal on a vast linen-covered tray . 
She looked at the girl speculatively from eyes which had paled with the years ; ; from the early evening lights of them which had first startled Izaak to look at her in an uncousinly way , they had faded to a near-absence of color which had , possibly from her constant looking at the water , something of the light of the sea in them . 
Angelina placed the tray on the table and with a flick of dark wrist drew off the cloth . 
She smiled , and the teeth gleamed in her beautifully modeled olive face . 
" That will be so nice for you , Mrs. Packard " , she said . 
Her voice was ripe and full and her teeth flashed again in Sicilian brilliance before the warm curved lips met and her mouth settled in repose . 
" Um " , said the old lady , and brought her eyes down to the tray . 
" You remember them , I suppose " ? ? 
She glinted suspiciously at the dish before her : " blowfish . 
I hope Raphael bought them whole " . 
Angelina stepped back , her eyes roaming the tray for omissions . 
Then she looked at the old woman again , her eyes calm . 
" Yes " , she said , " I remember that they came here every summer . 
I used to play with the older one sometimes , when he 'd let me . 
Abel " ? ? 
The name fell with lazy affectionate remembrance from her lips . 
For an instant the old aunt felt something indefinable flash through her smile . 
She would have said triumph . 
Then Angelina turned and with an easy grace walked toward the kitchen . 
Jessica Packard lifted her head and followed the retreating figure , her eyes resting nearly closed on the unself-conscious rise and fall of the rounded hips . 
For a moment she held her face to the empty doorway ; ; then she snorted and groped for her fork . 
There 's no greater catastrophe in the universe , she reflected dourly , impaling tender green beans on the silver fork , than the dwindling away of a family . 
Procreation , expansion , proliferation -- these are the laws of living things , with the penalty for not obeying them the ultimate in punishments : oblivion . 
When the fate of the individual is visited on the group , then ( the warm sweet butter dripped from her raised trembling fork and she pushed her head forward belligerently ) , ah , then the true bitterness of existence could be tasted . 
And indeed the young garden beans were brackish in her mouth . 
She was the last living of the older generation . 
What had once been a widespread family -- at one time , she knew , there were enough Packards to populate an entire county -- had now narrowed down to the two boys , Abel and Mark . 
She swung her eyes up to the blue of the window , her jaws gently mashing the bitter beans . 
What hope lay in the nephews , she asked the intensifying light out there , with one married to a barren woman and the other divorced , having sired two girl children , with none to bear on the Packard name ? ? 
She ate . 
It seemed to her , as it seemed each night , that the gloom drew itself in and became densest at the table 's empty chairs , giving her the frequent illusion that she dined with shadows . 
Here , too , she talked low , quirking her head at one or another of the places , most often at Izaak 's armchair which faced her across the long table . 
Or it might have been the absent nephews she addressed , consciously playing with the notion that this was one of the summers of their early years . 
She thought again of her children , those two who had died young , before the later science which might have saved them could attach even a label to their separate malignancies . 
The girl , her first , she barely remembered . 
It could have been anyone 's infant , for it had not survived the bassinet . 
But the boy the boy had been alive yesterday . 
Each successive movement in his growing was recorded on the unreeling film inside her . 
He ran on his plump sticks of legs , freezing now and again into the sudden startled attitudes which the camera had caught and held on the paling photographs , all carefully placed and glued and labeled , resting in the fat plush album in the bottom drawer of the escritoire . 
In the cruel clearness of her memory the boy remained unchanged , quick with the delight of laughter , and the pain with which she recalled that short destroyed childhood was still unendurable to her . 
It was one with the desolate rocks and the alien water on those days when she hated the sea . 
The brothers drove down together in Mark 's small red sports car , Mark at the wheel . 
They rarely spoke . 
Abel sat and regarded the farm country which , spreading out from both sides of the road , rolled greenly up to where the silent white houses and long barns and silos nested into the tilled fields . 
He saw the land with a stranger 's eyes , all the old familiarness gone . 
And it presented itself to him as it would to any stranger , impervious , complete in itself . 
There was stability there , too -- a color which his life had had once . 
That is what childhood is , he told himself . 
Solid , settled lost . 
In the stiff neutral lines of the telephone poles he saw the no-nonsense pen strokes of Aunt Jessica 's letter . 
What bad grace , what incredible selfishness he and Mark had shown . 
The boyhood summers preceding their uncle 's funeral might never have been . 
They had closed over , absolutely , with the sealing of old Izaak 's grave . 
The small car flew on relentlessly . 
The old woman , stubbornly reigning in the house above the crashing waters took on an ominous reality . 
Abel moved and adjusted his long legs . 
" I suppose it has to do with the property " , Mark had said over the telephone when they had discussed their receipt of the letters . 
Not until the words had been spoken did Abel suddenly see the old house and the insistent sea , and feel his contrition blotted out in one shameful moment of covetousness . 
He and Mark were the last of the family , and there lay the Cape Ann property which had seemed to have no end , stretching from horizon to horizon , in those golden days of summer . 
Now Abel turned his head to look at his brother . 
Mark held the wheel loosely , but his fingers curved around it in a purposeful way and the deliberate set of his body spoke plainly of the figure he 'd make in the years to come . 
His sandy hair was already beginning to thin and recede at the sides , and Abel looked quickly away . 
Mark easily looked years older than himself , settled , his world comfortably categorized . 
The vacation traffic was becoming heavier as they approached the sea . 
" She did n't mention bringing Myra " , Mark said , maneuvering the car into the next lane . 
" She 's probably getting old -- crotchety , I mean -- and we figured uh-uh , better not . 
They 've never met , you know . 
But Myra would n't budge without an express invitation . 
I feel kind of bad about it " . 
He gave Abel a quick glance and moved closer to the wheel , hugging it to him , and Abel caught this briefest of allusions to guilt . 
" I imagine the old girl has n't missed us much " , Mark added , his eyes on the road . 
Abel ignored the half-expressed bid for confirmation . 
He smiled . 
It was barely possible that his brother was right . 
He could tell they were approaching the sea . 
The air took on a special strength now that they 'd left the fecund warmth of the farmland behind . 
There was the smell of the coast , like a primeval memory , composed of equal parts salt water , clams , seaweed and northern air . 
He turned from the flying trees to look ahead and saw with an inward boy 's eye again the great fieldstone house which , built on one of the many acres of ancestral land bordering the west harbor , had been Izaak 's bride-gift to his cousin-wife as the last century ended . 
Mark 's thoughts must have been keeping silent pace beside his own , climbing the same crags in dirty white sneakers , clambering out on top of the headland and coming upon the sudden glinting water at the same instant . 
" Remember the Starbird ? ? 
" Mark asked , and Abel lifted his eyes from the double lines in the middle of the road , the twin white ribbons which the car swallowed rapidly as it ascended the crest of the hill and came down . 
" The Starbird , " Abel said . 
There was the day Uncle Izaak had , in an unexpected grandiose gesture , handed over the pretty sloop to Abel for keeps , on condition that he never fail to let his brother accompany him whenever younger the boy wished . 
The two of them had developed into a remarkable sailing team all of this happening in a time of their lives when their youth and their brotherhood knitted them together as no other time or circumstance could . 
They seemed then to have had a single mind and body , a mutuality which had been accepted with the fact of their youth , casually . 
He saw the Starbird as she lay , her slender mast up and gently turning , its point describing constant languid circles against a cumulus sky . 
Both of them had known the feeling of the small life in her waiting , ready , for the two of them to run up her sails . 
The Starbird had been long at the bottom of the bay . 
They came unexpectedly upon the sea . 
Meeting it without preparation as they did , robbed of anticipation , a common disappointment seized them . 
They were climbing the hill in the night when the headlights abruptly probed solid blackness , became two parallel luminous tubes which broadened out into a faint mist of light and ended . 
Mark stopped the car and switched off the lights and they sat looking at the water , which , there being no moon out , at first could be distinguished from the sky only by an absence of stars . 
