There was one fact which Rector could not overlook , one truth which he could not deny . 
As long as there were two human beings working together on the same project , there would be competition and you could no more escape it than you could expect to escape the grave . 
No matter how devoted a man was , no matter how fully he gave his life to the Lord , he could never extinguish that one spark of pride that gave him definition as an individual . 
All of the jobs in the mission might be equal in the eyes of the Lord , but they were certainly not equal in the eyes of the Lord 's servants . 
It was only natural that Fletcher would strive for a position in which he could make the decisions . 
Even Rector himself was prey to this spirit of competition and he knew it , not for a more exalted office in the hierarchy of the church -- his ambitions for the bishopry had died very early in his career -- but for the one clear victory he had talked about to the colonel . 
He was not sure how much of this desire was due to his devotion to the church and how much was his own ego , demanding to be satisfied , for the two were intertwined and could not be separated . 
He wanted desperately to see Kayabashi defeated , the Communists in the village rooted out , the mission standing triumphant , for in the triumph of the Lord he himself would be triumphant , too . 
But perhaps this was a part of the eternal plan , that man 's ambition when linked with God would be a driving , indefatigable force for good in the world . 
He sighed . 
How foolish it was to try to fathom the truth in an area where only faith would suffice . 
He would have to work without questioning the motives which made him work and content himself with the thought that the eventual victory , however it was brought about , would be sweet indeed . 
His first move was to send Hino to the village to spend a few days . 
His arm had been giving him some trouble and Rector was not enough of a medical expert to determine whether it had healed improperly or whether Hino was simply rebelling against the tedious work in the print shop , using the stiffness in his arm as an excuse . 
In any event Rector sent him to the local hospital to have it checked , telling him to keep his ears open while he was in the village to see if he could find out what Kayabashi was planning . 
Hino was elated at the prospect . 
He was allowed to spend his nights at an inn near the hospital and he was given some extra money to go to the pachinko parlor -- an excellent place to make contact with the enemy . 
He left with all the joyous spirit of a child going on a holiday , nodding attentively as Rector gave him his final instructions . 
He was to get involved in no arguments ; ; he was to try to make no converts ; ; he was simply to listen and report back what he heard . 
It was a ridiculous situation and Rector knew it , for Hino , frankly partisan , openly gregarious , would make a poor espionage agent . 
If he wanted to know anything , he would end up asking about it point-blank , but in this guileless manner he would probably receive more truthful answers than if he tried to get them by indirection . 
In all of his experience in the mission field Rector had never seen a convert quite like Hino . 
From the moment that Hino had first walked into the mission to ask for a job , any job -- his qualifications neatly written on a piece of paper in a precise hand -- he had been ready to become a Christian . 
He had already been studying the Bible ; ; he knew the fundamentals , and after studying with Fletcher for a time he approached Rector , announced that he wanted to be baptized and that was that . 
Rector had never been able to find out much about Hino 's past . 
Hino talked very little about himself except for the infrequent times when he used a personal illustration in connection with another subject . 
Putting the pieces of this mosaic together , Rector had the vague outlines of a biography . 
Hino was the fourth son of an elderly farmer who lived on the coast , in Chiba , and divided his life between the land and the sea , supplementing the marginal livelihood on his small rented farm with seasonal employment on a fishing boat . 
Without exception Hino 's brothers turned to either one or both of their father 's occupations , but Hino showed a talent for neither and instead spent most of his time on the beach where he repaired nets and proved immensely popular as a storyteller . 
He had gone into the Japanese navy , had been trained as an officer , had participated in one or two battles -- he never went into detail regarding his military experience -- and at the age of twenty-five , quite as a bolt out of the blue , he had walked into the mission as if he belonged here and had become a Christian . 
Rector was often curious ; ; often tempted to ask questions but he never did . 
If and when Hino decided to tell him about his experiences , he would do so unasked . 
Rector had no doubt that Hino would come back from the village bursting with information , ready to impart it with his customary gusto , liberally embellished with his active imagnation . 
When the telephone rang on the day after Hino went down to the village , Rector had a hunch it would be Hino with some morsel of information too important to wait until his return , for there were few telephones in the village and the phone in Rector 's office rarely rang unless it was important . 
He was surprised to find Kayabashi 's secretary on the other end of the line . 
He was even more startled when he heard what Kayabashi wanted . 
The oyabun was entertaining a group of dignitaries , the secretary said , businessmen from Tokyo for the most part , and Kayabashi wished to show them the mission . 
They had never seen one before and had expressed a curiosity about it . 
" Oh " ? ? 
Rector said . 
" I guess it will be all right . 
When would the oyabun like to bring his guests up here " ? ? 
" This afternoon " , the secretary said . 
" At three o'clock if it will be of convenience to you at that time " . 
" All right " , Rector said . 
" I will be expecting them " . 
He was about to hang up the phone , but a note of hesitancy in the secretary 's voice left the conversation open . 
He had something more to say . 
" I beg to inquire if the back is now safe for travelers " , he said . 
Rector laughed despite himself . 
" Unless the oyabun has been working on it " , he said , then checked himself and added : " You can tell Kayabashi-san that the back road is in very good condition and will be quite safe for his party to use " . 
" Arigato gosaimasu " . 
The secretary sighed with relief and then the telephone clicked in Rector 's hand . 
Rector had no idea why Kayabashi wanted to visit the mission . 
For the oyabun to make such a trip was either a sign of great weakness or an indication of equally great confidence , and from all the available information it was probably the latter . 
Kayabashi must feel fairly certain of his victory in order to make a visit like this , a trip which could be so easily misinterpreted by the people in the village . 
At the same time , it was unlikely that any businessmen would spend a day in a Christian mission out of mere curiosity . 
No , Kayabashi was bringing his associates here for a specific purpose and Rector would not be able to fathom it until they arrived . 
When he had given the call a few moments thought , he went into the kitchen to ask Mrs. Yamata to prepare tea and sushi for the visitors , using the formal English china and the silver tea service which had been donated to the mission , then he went outside to inspect the grounds . 
Fujimoto had a pile of cuttings near one side of the lawn . 
Rector asked him to move it for the time being ; ; he wanted the mission compound to be effortlessly spotless . 
A good initial impression would be important now . 
He went into the print shop , where Fletcher had just finished cleaning the press . 
" How many pamphlets do we have in stock " ? ? 
Rector said . 
" I should say about a hundred thousand " , Fletcher said . 
" Why " ? ? 
" I would like to enact a little tableau this afternoon " , Rector said , He explained about the visit and the effect he wished to create , the picture of a very busy mission . 
He did not wish to deceive Kayabashi exactly , just to display the mission activities in a graphic and impressive manner . 
Fletcher nodded as he listened to the instructions and said he would arrange the things Rector requested . 
Rector 's next stop was at the schoolroom , where Mavis was monitoring a test . 
He beckoned to her from the door and she slipped quietly outside . 
He told her of the visitors and then of his plans . 
" How many children do you have present today " ? ? 
He said . 
She looked back toward the schoolroom . 
" Fifteen " , she said . 
" No , only fourteen . 
The little Ito girl had had to go home . 
She has a pretty bad cold " . 
" I would like them to appear very busy today , not busy exactly , but joyous , exuberant , full of life . 
I want to create the impression of a compound full of children . 
Do you think you can manage it " ? ? 
Mavis smiled . 
" I 'll try " . 
As Rector was walking back toward the residential hall , Johnson came out of the basement and bounded up to him . 
The altercation in the coffee house had done little to dampen his spirits , but he was still a little wary around Rector for they had not yet discussed the incident . 
" I think I 've fixed the pump so we wo n't have to worry about it for a long time " , he said . 
" I 've adjusted the gauge so that the pump cuts out before the water gets too low . 
" " Fine " , Rector said . 
He looked out over the expanse of the compound . 
It was going to take a lot of activity to fill it . 
" Have you ever operated a transit " ? ? 
He said . 
" No , sir " , Johnson said . 
" You are about to become a first-class surveyor " , Rector said . 
" When Konishi gets back with the jeep , I want you to round up two or three Japanese boys . 
Konishi can help you . 
You 'll find an old transit in the basement . 
The glass is out of it , but that wo n't matter . 
It looks pretty efficient and that 's the important thing " . 
He went on to explain what he had in mind . 
Johnson nodded . 
He said he could do it . 
Rector was warming to his over-all strategy by the time he got back to the residential hall . 
It was rather a childish game , all in all , but everybody seemed to be getting into the spirit of the thing and he could not remember when he had enjoyed planning anything quite so much . 
He was not sure what effect it would have , but that was really beside the point when you got right down to it . 
He was not going to lose the mission by default , and whatever reason Kayabashi had for bringing his little sight-seeing group to the mission , he was going to be in for a surprise . 
He found Elizabeth in the parlor and asked her to make sure everything was in order in the residential hall , and then to take charge of the office while the party was here . 
When everything had been done , Rector went back to his desk to occupy himself with his monthly report until three o'clock . 
At two thirty he sent Fujimoto to the top of the wall at the northeast corner of the mission to keep an eye on the ridge road and give a signal when he first glimpsed the approach of Kayabashi 's party . 
Then Rector , attired in his best blue serge suit , sat in a chair out on the lawn , in the shade of a tree , smoking a cigarette and waiting . 
The air was cooler here , and the lacy pattern of the trees threw a dappled shadow on the grass , an effect which he found pleasant . 
