Going downstairs with the tray , Winston wished he could have given in to Miss Ada , but he knew better than to do what she said when she had that little-girl look . 
There were times it was n't right to make a person happy , like the times she came in the kitchen and asked know we do n't keep peanut " butter for a peanut butter sandwich . 
You in this house " , he always told her . 
" Why , Winston " , she 'd cry , " I just now saw you eating it out of the jar " ! ! 
But he knew how important it was for her to keep her figure . 
In the kitchen , Leona , his little young wife , was reading the morning paper . 
Her legs hung down long and thin as she sat on the high stool . 
" Here " , Winston said gently , " what 's these dishes doing not washed " ? ? 
The enormous plates which had held Mr. Jack 's four fried eggs and five strips of bacon were still stacked in the sink . 
" Leave me alone " , Leona said . 
" Ca n't you see I 'm busy " ? ? 
She looked at him impudently over the corner of the paper . 
" This is moving day " , Winston reminded her , " and I bet you left things every which way upstairs , your clothes all over the floor and the bed not made . 
Leona " ! ! 
His eye had fastened on her leg ; ; bending , he touched her knee . 
" If I catch you one more time down here without stockings " -- She twitched her leg away . 
" Fuss , fuss , old man " . 
She had an alley cat 's manners . 
Winston stacked Miss Ada 's thin pink dishes in the sink . 
Then he spread out the last list on the counter . 
" To Be Left Behind " was printed at the top in Miss Ada ; ; fine hand . 
Winston took out a pencil , admired the point , and wrote slowly and heavily , " Clothes Stand " . 
Sighing , Leona dropped the paper and stood up . 
" I guess I better get ready to go " . 
Winston watched her fumbling to untie her apron . 
" Here " . 
Carefully , he undid the bow . 
" How come your bows is always cockeyed " ? ? 
She turned and put her arms around his neck . 
" I do n't want to leave here , Winston " . 
" Now listen to that " . 
He drew back , embarrassed and pleased . 
" I thought you was sick to death of this big house . 
Said you wore yourself out , cleaning all these empty rooms " . 
" At least there is room here " , she said . 
" What room is there going to be in an apartment for any child " ? ? 
" I told you what Miss Ada 's doctor said " . 
" I do n't mean Miss Ada ! ! 
What you think I care about that ? ? 
I mean our children " . 
She sounded as though they already existed . 
In spite of the hundred things he had on his mind , Winston went and put his arm around her waist . 
" We 've got plenty of time to think about that . 
All the time in the world . 
We 've only been married four years , January " . 
" Four years " ! ! 
She wailed . 
" That 's a long time , waiting " . 
" How many times have I told you " -- he began , and was almost glad when she cut him off -- " Too many times " ! ! 
-- and flounced to the sink , where she began noisily to wash her hands . 
Too many times was the truth of it , Winston thought . 
He hardly believed his reason himself any more . 
Although it had seemed a good reason , to begin with : no couple could afford to have children . 
" How you going to work with a child hanging on you " ? ? 
He asked Leona . 
" You want to keep this job , do n't you " ? ? 
He doubted whether she heard him , over the running water . 
He sat for a while with his hands on his knees , watching the bend of her back as she gathered up her things -- a comb , a bottle of aspirin -- to take upstairs and pack . 
She made him sad some days , and he was never sure why ; ; it was something to do with her back , the thinness of it , and the quick , jerky way she bent . 
She was too young , that was all ; ; too young and thin and straight . 
" Winston " ! ! 
It was Mr. Jack , bellowing out in the hall . 
Winston hurried through the swinging door . 
" I 've been bursting my lungs for you " , Mr. Jack complained . 
He was standing in front of the mirror , tightening his tie . 
He had on his gray tweed overcoat and his city hat , and his brief case lay on the bench . 
" I do n't know what you think you 've been doing about my clothes " , he said . 
" This coat looks like a rag heap " . 
There were a few blades of lint on the shoulder . 
Winston took the clothesbrush out of the closet and went to work . 
He gave Mr. Jack a real going-over ; ; he brushed his shoulders and his back and his collar with long , firm strokes . 
" Hey " ! ! 
Mr. Jack cried when the brush tipped his hat down over his eyes . 
Winston apologized and quickly set the hat right . 
Then he stood back to look at Mr. Jack , who was pulling on his pigskin gloves . 
Winston enjoyed seeing him start out ; ; he wore his clothes with style . 
When he was going to town , nothing was good enough -- he had cursed at Winston once for leaving a fleck of polish on his shoelace . 
At home , he would n't even wash his hands for supper , and he wandered around the yard in a pair of sweaty old corduroys . 
The velvet smoking jackets , pearl-gray , wine , and blue , which Miss Ada had bought him hung brushed and unworn in the closet . 
" Good-by , Winston " , Mr. Jack said , giving a final set to his hat . 
" Look out for those movers " ! ! 
Winston watched him hurry down the drive to his car ; ; a handsome , fine-looking man it made him proud to see . 
After Mr. Jack drove away , Winston went on looking out the window . 
He noticed a speck of dirt on the sill and swiped at it with his finger . 
Then he looked at his finger , at the wrinkled , heavy knuckle and the thick nail he used like a knife to pry up , slit , and open . 
For the first time , he be sad about the move . 
That house was ten years off his life let himself . 
Each brass handle and hinge shone for his reward , and he knew how to get at the dust in the china flowers and how to take down the long glass drops which hung from the chandelier . 
He knew the house like a blind man , through his fingers , and he did not like to think of all the time and rags and polishes he had spent on keeping it up . 
Ten years ago , he had come to the house to be interviewed . 
The tulips and the big pink peonies had been blooming along the drive , and he had walked up from the bus almost singing . 
Miss Ada had been out back , in a straw hat , planting flowers . 
She had talked to him right there , with the hot sun in his face , which made him sweat and feel ashamed . 
Winston had been surprised at her for that . 
Still , he had liked the way she had looked , in a fresh , neat cotton dress -- citron yellow , if he remembered . 
She had had a dignity about her , even barefoot and almost too tan . 
Since then , the flowers she had planted had spread all over the hill . 
Already the jonquils were blooming in a flock by the front gate , and the periwinkles were coming on , blue by the porch steps . 
In a week the hyacinths would spike out . 
And the dogwood in early May , for Miss Ada 's alfresco party ; ; and after that the Japanese cherries . 
Now the yard looked wet and bald , the trees bare under their buds , but in a while Miss Ada 's flowers would bloom like a marching parade . 
She had dug a hole for each bulb , each tree wore a tag with her writing on it ; ; where would she go for her gardening now ? ? 
Somehow Winston did n't think she 'd take to window boxes . 
Sighing , he hurried to the living room . 
He had a thousand things to see to . 
Still , he could n't help thinking , we 're all getting old , getting small ; ; the snail is pulling in her horns . 
In the living room , Miss Ada was standing by the window with a sheaf of lists in her hand . 
She was looking out at the garden . 
" Winston " , she said , " get the basket for the breakables " . 
Winston had the big straw basket ready in the hall . 
He brought it in and put it down beside her . 
Miss Ada was looking fine ; ; she had on her Easter suit , blue , with lavender binding . 
Halfway across the house , he could have smelled her morning perfume . 
It hung in all her day clothes , sweet and strong ; ; sometimes when he was pressing , Winston raised her dresses to his face . 
Frowning , Miss Ada studied the list . 
" Well , let 's see . 
The china lemon tree . 
The alabaster cockatoo " . 
Winston followed her around the room , collecting the small frail objects ( Christmas , birthday , and anniversary ) and wrapping them in tissue paper . 
Neither of them trusted the movers . 
When they came to Mr. Jack 's photograph , twenty by twelve inches in a curly silver frame , Miss Ada said , " By rights I ought to leave that , seeing he wo n't take my clotheshorse " . 
She smiled at Winston , and he saw the hateful hard glitter in her eyes . 
He picked up the photograph and began to wrap it . 
" At least you could leave it for the movers " , Miss Ada said . 
" What possessed you to tell me a clotheshorse would be a good idea " ? ? 
Winston folded the tissue paper carefully . 
" He 's used it every day ; ; every morning , I lay out his clothes on it " . 
" Well , that 's over now . 
And it was his main present ! ! 
Leave that fool picture out " , she added sharply . 
Winston laid it in the basket . 
" Mr. Jack sets store by that " . 
" Really , Winston . 
It was meant to be my present " . 
But she went on down the list . 
Winston was relieved ; ; those presents had been on his mind . 
He had only agreed with Miss Ada about getting the valet , but he had actually suggested the photograph to Mr. Jack . 
" You know what she likes , Winston " , he had said wearily , one evening in November when Winston was pulling off his overshoes . 
" Tell me what to get her for Christmas " . 
" She 's been talking about a picture " , Winston had told him . 
" Picture ! ! 
You mean picture of me " ? ? 
But Winston had persuaded him . 
On Christmas night , they had had a disagreement about it . 
Winston had heard because he was setting up the liquor tray in the next room . 
Through the door , he had seen Mr. Jack walking around , waiting for Miss Ada . 
Finally she had come down ; ; Winston had heard her shaking out the skirt of her new pink silk hostess gown . 
" How do you like it " ? ? 
She had asked . 
Mr. Jack had said , " You look about fifteen years old " . 
" Is that a compliment " ? ? 
" I do n't know " . 
He had stood at a little distance , studying her , as though he would walk around next and look at the back of her head . 
" Lovie , you make me feel naked " . 
Miss Ada had giggled , and she went sweeping and rustling to the couch and sank down . 
" You look like that picture I have at the office " , Mr. Jack had started . 
" Not a line , not a wrinkle . 
I look like an old man , compared " , and he had picked up his photograph with the red Christmas bow still on it . 
" Look , an old man . 
Will you wear pink when you 're sixty " ? ? 
" Darling , I love that photograph . 
I 'm going to put it on my dresser " . 
" I guess it 's children make a woman old . 
A man gets old anyhow " . 
After a minute he went on , " People must think the curse is on me , seeing you fresh as an apple and me old and gray " . 
" I 'll give you a medical certificate , framed , if you like " , Miss Ada had said . 
" No . 
All I want is a picture -- with a few lines . 
Make the man put them in if he has to " . 
After that they had sat for five minutes without saying a word . 
Then Miss Ada had stood up , rustling and rustling , and gone upstairs . 
