In the dim underwater light they dressed and straightened up the room , and then they went across the hall to the kitchen . 
She was intimidated by the stove . 
He found the pilot light and turned on one of the burners for her . 
The gas flamed up two inches high . 
They found the teakettle . 
And put water on to boil and then searched through the icebox . 
Several sections of a loaf of dark bread ; ; butter ; ; jam ; ; a tiny cake of ice . 
In their search for what turned out to be the right breakfast china but the wrong table silver , they opened every cupboard door in the kitchen and pantry . 
While she was settling the teacart , he went back across the hall to their bedroom , opened one of the suitcases , and took out powdered coffee and sugar . 
She appeared with the teacart and he opened the windows . 
" Do you want to call Eugene " ? ? 
He did n't , but it was not really a question , and so he left the room , walked down the hall to the front of the apartment , hesitated , and then knocked lightly on the closed door of the study . 
A sleepy voice answered . 
" Le petit dejeuner " , Harold said , in an accent that did credit to Miss Sloan , his high-school French teacher . 
At the same time , his voice betrayed uncertainty about their being here , and conveyed an appeal to whatever is reasonable , peace-loving , and dependable in everybody . 
Since ordinary breakfast-table conversation was impossible , it was at least something that they were able to offer Eugene the sugar bowl with their sugar in it , and the plate of bread and butter , and that Eugene could return the pitcher of hot milk to them handle first . 
Eugene put a spoonful of powdered coffee into his cup and then filled it with hot water . 
Stirring , he said : " I am sorry that my work prevents me from doing anything with you today " . 
They assured him that they did not expect or need to be entertained . 
Harold put a teaspoonful of powdered coffee in his cup and filled it with hot water , and then , stirring , he sat back in his chair . 
The chair creaked . 
Every time he moved or said something , the chair creaked again . 
Eugene was not entirely silent , or openly rude -- unless asking Harold to move to another chair and placing himself in the fauteuil that creaked so alarmingly was an act of rudeness . 
It went right on creaking under his own considerable weight , and all it needed , Harold thought , was for somebody to fling himself back in a fit of laughter and that would be the end of it . 
Through the open window they heard sounds below in the street : cartwheels , a tired horse 's plodding step , voices . 
Harold indicated the photograph on the wall and asked what church the stone sculpture was in . 
Eugene told him and he promptly forgot . 
They passed the marmalade , the bread , the black-market butter , back and forth . 
Nothing was said about hotels or train journeys . 
Eugene offered Harold his car , to use at any time he cared to , and when this offer was not accepted , the armchair creaked . 
They all three had another cup of coffee . 
Eugene was in his pajamas and dressing gown , and on his large feet he wore yellow Turkish slippers that turned up at the toes . 
" Excuse me " , he said in Berlitz English , and got up and left them , to bathe and dress . 
The first shrill ring of the telephone brought Harold out into the hall . 
He realized that he had no idea where the telephone was . 
At that moment the bathroom door flew open and Eugene came out , with his face lathered for shaving , and strode down the hall , tying the sash of his dressing gown as he went . 
The telephone was in the study but the ringing came from the hall . 
Between the telephone and the wall plug there was sixty feet of cord , and when the conversation came to an end , Eugene carried the instrument with him the whole length of the apartment , to his bathroom , where it rang three more times while he was shaving and in the tub . 
Before he left the apartment he knocked on their door and asked if there was anything he could do for them . 
Harold shook his head . 
" Sabine called a few minutes ago " , Eugene said . 
" She wants you and Barbara to have dinner with her tomorrow night " . 
He handed Harold a key to the front door , and cautioned him against leaving it unlocked while they were out of the apartment . 
When enough time had elapsed so that there was little likelihood of his returning for something he had forgotten , Harold went out into the hall and stood looking into one room after another . 
In the room next to theirs was a huge cradle , of mahogany , ornately carved and decorated with gold leaf . 
It was the most important-looking cradle he had ever seen . 
Then came their bathroom , and then a bedroom that , judging by the photographs on the walls , must belong to Mme Cestre . 
A young woman who looked like Alix , with her two children . 
Alix and Eugene on their wedding day . 
Matching photographs in oval frames of Mme Bonenfant and an elderly man who must be Alix 's grandfather . 
Mme Vienot , considerably younger and very different . 
The schoolboy . 
And a gray-haired man whose glance -- direct , lifelike , and mildly accusing -- was contradicted by the gilt and black frame . 
It was the kind of frame that is only put around the photograph of a dead person . 
Professor Cestre , could it be ? ? 
With the metal shutters closed , the dining room was so dark that it seemed still night in there . 
One of the drawing-room shutters was partly open and he made out the shapes of chairs and sofas , which seemed to be upholstered in brown or russet velvet . 
The curtains were of the same material , and there were some big oil paintings -- portraits in the style of Lancret and Boucher . 
Though , taken individually , the big rooms were , or seemed to be , square , the apartment as a whole formed a triangle . 
The apex , the study where Eugene slept , was light and bright and airy and cheerful . 
The window looked out on the Place Redoute -- it was the only window of the apartment that did . 
Looking around slowly , he saw a marble fireplace , a desk , a low bookcase of mahogany with criss-crossed brass wire instead of glass panes in the doors . 
The daybed Eugene had slept in , made up now with its dark-brown velours cover and pillows . 
The portable record player with a pile of classical records beside it . 
Beethoven 's Fifth was the one on top . 
Da-da-da-dum Music could not be Eugene 's passion . 
Besides , the records were dusty . 
He tried the doors of the bookcase . 
Locked . 
The titles he could read easily through the criss-crossed wires : works on theology , astral physics , history , biology , political science . 
No poetry . 
No novels . 
He moved over to the desk and stood looking at the papers on it but not touching anything . 
The clock on the mantel piece was scandalized and ticked so loudly that he glanced at it over his shoulder and then quickly left the room . 
The concierge called out to them as they were passing through the foyer . 
Her quarters were on the right as you walked into the building , and her small front room was clogged with heavy furniture -- a big , round , oak dining table and chairs , a buffet , with a row of unclaimed letters inserted between the mirror and its frame . 
The suitcases had come while they were out , and had been put in their room , the concierge said . 
He waited until they were inside the elevator and then said : " Now what do we do " ? ? 
" Call the Vouillemont , I guess " . 
" I guess " . 
Rather than sit around waiting for the suitcases to be delivered , they had gone sight-seeing . 
They went to the Flea Market , expecting to find the treasures of Europe , and found instead a duplication of that long double row of booths in Tours . 
Cheap clothing and junk of every sort , as far as the eye could see . 
They looked , even so . 
Looked at everything . 
Barbara bought some cotton aprons , and Harold bought shoestrings . 
They had lunch at a sidewalk cafe overlooking the intersection of two broad , busy , unpicturesque streets , and coming home they got lost in the Metro ; ; it took them over an hour to get back to the station where they should have changed , in order to take the line that went to the Place Redoute . 
It was the end of the afternoon when he took the huge key out of his pocket and inserted it into the keyhole . 
When he opened the door , there stood Eugene , on his way out of the apartment . 
He was wearing sneakers and shorts and an open-collared shirt , and in his hand he carried a little black bag . 
He did not explain where he was going , and they did not ask . 
Instead , they went on down the hall to their room . 
" Do you think he could be having an affair " ? ? 
Barbara asked , as they heard the front door close . 
" Oh no " , Harold said , shocked . 
" Well , this is France , after all " . 
" I know , but there must be some other explanation . 
He 's probably spending the evening with friends " . 
" And for that he needs a little bag " ? ? 
They went shopping in the neighborhood , and bought two loaves of bread with the ration coupons they had been given in Blois , and some cheese , and a dozen eggs , and a bag of oranges from a peddler in the Place Redoute -- the first oranges they had seen since they landed . 
They had Vermouth , sitting in front of a cafe . 
When they got home Harold was grateful for the stillness in the apartment , and thought how , under different circumstances , they might have stayed on here , in these old-fashioned , high-ceilinged rooms that reminded him of the Irelands ' apartment in the East Eighties . 
They could have been perfectly happy here for ten whole days . 
He went down the hall to Eugene 's bathroom , to turn on the hot-water heater , and on the side of the tub he saw a pair of blue wool swimming trunks . 
He felt them . 
They were damp . 
He reached out and felt the bath towel hanging on the towel rack over the tub . 
Damp also . 
He looked around the room and then called out : " Come here , quick " ? ? 
" What is it " ? ? 
Barbara asked , standing in the doorway . 
" I 've solved the mystery of the little bag . 
There it is and there is what was in it . 
But where do people go swimming in Paris ? ? 
That boat in the river , maybe " . 
" What boat " ? ? 
" There 's a big boat anchored near the Place De La Concorde , with a swimming pool in it -- did n't you notice it ? ? 
But if he has time to go swimming , he had time to be with us " . 
She looked at him in surprise . 
" I know " , he said , reading her mind . 
" I do n't know what I 'm going to do with you " . 
" It 's because we are in France " , he said , " and know so few people . 
So something like this matters more than it would at home . 
Also , he was so nice when he was nice " . 
" All because I did n't feel like dancing " . 
" I do n't think it was that , really " . 
" Then what was it " ? ? 
" I do n't know . 
I wish I did . 
The tweed coat , maybe . 
The thing about Eugene is that he 's very proud " . 
And the thing about hurt feelings , the wet bathing suit pointed out , is that the person who has them is not quite the innocent party he believes himself to be . 
For instance -- what about all those people Harold Rhodes went toward unhesitatingly , as if this were the one moment they would ever have together , their one chance of knowing each other ? ? 
Fortunately , the embarrassing questions raised by objects do not need to be answered , or we would all have to go sleep in the open fields . 
And in any case , answers may clarify but they do not change anything . 
