Payne dismounted in Madison Place and handed the reins to Herold . 
There was a fog , which increased the darkness of the night . 
Two gas lamps were no more than a misleading glow . 
He might have been anywhere or nowhere . 
The pretence was that he was delivering a prescription from Dr. Verdi . 
Secretary of State Seward was a sick man . 
The idea had come from Herold , who had once been a chemist 's clerk . 
The sick were always receiving medicines . 
No one would question such an errand . 
The bottle was filled up with flour . 
Before Payne loomed the Old Clubhouse , Seward 's home , where Key had once been killed . 
Now it would have another death . 
From the outside it was an ordinary enough house of the gentry . 
He clomped heavily up the stoop and rang the bell . 
Like the bell at Mass , the doorbell was pitched too high . 
It was still Good Friday , after all . 
A nigger boy opened the door . 
Payne did not notice him . 
He was thinking chiefly of Cap . 
If their schedules were to synchronize , there was no point in wasting time . 
He pushed his way inside . 
For a moment the hall confused him . 
This was the largest house he had ever been in , almost the largest building , except for a hotel . 
He had no idea where Seward 's room would be . 
In the half darkness the banisters gleamed , and the hall seemed enormous . 
Above him somewhere were the bedrooms . 
Seward would be up there . 
He explained his errand , but without bothering much to make it plausible , for he felt something well up in him which was the reason why he had fled the army . 
He did not really want to kill , but as in the sexual act , there was a moment when the impulse took over and could not be downed , even while you watched yourself giving way to it . 
He was no longer worried . 
Everything would be all right . 
He knew that in this mood he could not be stopped . 
Still , the sensation always surprised him . 
It was a thrill he felt no part in . 
He could only watch with a sort of gentle dismay while his body did these quick , appalling , and efficient things . 
He brushed by the idiotic boy and lumbered heavily up the stairs . 
They were carpeted , but made for pumps and congress gaiters , not the great clodhoppers he wore . 
The sound of his footsteps was like a muffled drum . 
At the top of the stairs he ran into somebody standing there angrily in a dressing gown . 
He stopped and whispered his errand . 
Young Frederick Seward held out his hand . 
Panting a little , Payne shook his head . 
Dr. Verdi had told him to deliver his package in person . 
Frederick Seward said his father was sleeping , and then went through a pantomime at his father 's door , to prove the statement . 
" Very well " , Payne said . 
" I will go " . 
He smiled , but now that he knew where the elder Seward was , he did not intend to go . 
He pulled out his pistol and fired it . 
It made no sound . 
It had misfired . 
Reversing it , he smashed the butt down on Frederick Seward 's head , over and over again . 
It was the first blow that was always difficult . 
After that , violence was exultantly easy . 
He got caught up into it and became a different person . 
Only afterwards did an act like that become meaningless , so that he would puzzle over it for days , whereas at the time it had seemed quite real . 
The nigger boy fled down the stairs , screaming , " Murder " . 
It was not murder at all . 
Payne was more methodical than that . 
He was merely clearing a way to what he had to do . 
He ran for the sick room , found his pistol was broken , and threw it away . 
A knife would do . 
From childhood he had known all about knives . 
Someone blocked the door from inside . 
He smashed it in and tumbled into darkness . 
He saw only dimly moving figures , but when he slashed them they yelled and fled . 
He went for the bed , jumped on it , and struck where he could , repeatedly . 
It was like finally getting into one 's own nightmares to punish one 's dreams . 
Two men pulled him off . 
Nobody said anything . 
Payne hacked at their arms . 
There was a lady there , in a nightdress . 
He would not have wanted to hurt a lady . 
Another man approached , this one fully dressed . 
When the knife went into his chest , he went down at once . 
" I 'm mad " , shouted Payne , as he ran out into the hall . 
" I 'm mad " , and only wished he had been . 
That would have made things so much easier . 
But he was not mad . 
He was only dreaming . 
He clattered down the stairs and out of the door . 
Somewhere in the fog , the nigger boy was still yelling murder . 
One always wakes up , even from one 's own dreams . 
The clammy air revived him . 
Herold , he saw , had fled . 
Well , one did not expect much of people like Herold . 
He unhitched his horse , walked it away , mounted , and spurred it on . 
The nigger boy was close behind him . 
Then the nigger boy turned back and he was alone . 
He rode on and on . 
He had no idea where he was . 
After some time he came to an open field . 
An open field was better than a building , that was for sure , so he dismounted , turned off the horse , and plunged through the grass . 
He felt curiously sleepy , the world seemed far away ; ; he knew he should get to Cap , but he did n't know how . 
He was sure , for he had done as he was told , had n't he ? ? 
Cap would find him and take care of him . 
So choosing a good tree , he clambered up into it , found a comfortable notch , and curled up in it to sleep , like the tousled bear he was , with his hands across his chest , as though surfeited with honey . 
Violence always made him tired , but he was not frightened . 
In Boston , Edwin Booth was winding up a performance of A New Way To Pay Old Debts . 
It was a part so familiar to him that he did not bother to think about it any more . 
Acting soothed him . 
On a stage he always knew what to do , and tonight , to judge by the applause , he must be doing it better than usual . 
As Sir Giles Overreach ( how often had he had to play that part , who did not believe a word of it ) , he raised his arm and declaimed : " Where is my honour now " ? ? 
That was one of the high spots of the play . 
The audience , as usual , loved it . 
He was delighted to see them so happy . 
If he had any worries , it was only the small ones , about Mother in New York , and his daughter Edwina and what she might be doing at this hour , with her Aunt Asia , in Philadelphia . 
Everyone is ambivalent about his profession , if he has practised it long enough , but there were still moments when he loved the stage and all those unseen people out there , who might cheer you or boo you , but that was largely , though not entirely , up to you . 
They made the world seem friendly somehow , though he knew it was not . 7 , Wilkes was quite right about one thing . 
Laura Keene had been in the green room . 
The commotion had brought her into the wings . 
Since she could not act , one part suited her as well as any other , and so she was the first person to offer Mr. Lincoln a glass of water , holding it up to the box , high above her head , to Miss Harris , who had asked for it . 
She had been one of the first to collect her wits . 
It was not so much that the shot had stunned the audience , as that they had been stunned already . 
Most of them had seen Our American Cousin before , and unless Miss Keene was on stage , there was not much to it . 
The theatre was hot and they were drugged with boredom . 
The stage had been empty , except for Harry Hawk , doing his star monologue . 
The audience was fond of Harry Hawk , he was a dear , in or out of character , but he was not particularly funny . 
At the end of the monologue the audience would applaud . 
Meanwhile it looked at the scenery . 
" Well , I guess I know enough to turn you inside out , you sockdologizing old mantrap " ! ! 
Said Trenchard , otherwise Hawk . 
There was always a pause here , before the next line . 
That was when the gun went off . 
Yet even that explosion did not mean much . 
Guns were going off all over Washington City these days , because of the celebrations , and the theatre was not soundproof . 
Then the audience saw a small , dim figure appear at the edge of the Presidential box . 
" Sic semper tyrannis " , it said mildly . 
Booth had delivered his line . 
Behind him billowed a small pungent cloud of smoke . 
They strained forward . 
They had not heard what had been said . 
They had been sitting too long to be able to stand up easily . 
The figure leapt from the box , almost lost its balance , the flag draped there tore in the air , the figure landed on its left leg , fell on its hands , and pressed itself up . 
Harry Hawk still had his arm raised towards the wings . 
His speech faltered . 
He did not lower his arm . 
The figure was so theatrically dressed , that it was as though a character from some other play had blundered into this one . 
The play for Saturday night was to be a benefit performance of The Octoroon . 
This figure looked like the slave dealer from that . 
But it also looked like a toad , hopping away from the light . 
There was something maimed and crazy about its motion that disturbed them . 
Then it disappeared into the wings . 
Harry Hawk had not shifted position , but he at last lowered his arm . 
Mrs. Lincoln screamed . 
There was no mistaking that scream . 
It was what anyone who had ever seen her had always expected her to do . 
Yet this scream had a different note in it . 
That absence of an urgent self-indulgence dashed them awake like a pail of water . 
Clara Harris , one of the guests in the box , stood up and demanded water . 
Her action was involuntary . 
When something unexpected happened , one always asked for water if one were a woman , brandy if one were a man . 
Mrs. Lincoln screamed again . 
In the Presidential box someone leaned over the balustrade and yelled : " He has shot the President " ! ! 
That got everybody up . 
On the stage , Harry Hawk began to weep . 
Laura Keene brushed by him with the glass of water . 
The crowd began to move . 
In Washington City everyone lived in a bubble of plots , and one death might attract another . 
It was not exactly panic they gave way to , but they could not just sit there . 
The beehive voices , for no one could bear silence , drowned out the sound of Mrs. Lincoln 's weeping . 
At the rear of the auditorium , upstairs , some men tried to push open the door to the box corridor . 
It would not give . 
A Dr. Charles Taft clambered up on the stage and got the actors to hoist him up to the box . 
In the audience a man named Ferguson lost his head and tried to rescue a little girl from the mob , on the same principle which had led Miss Harris to demand water . 
Someone opened the corridor door from the inside , and called for a doctor . 
Somehow Dr. Charles Leale was forced through the mob and squeezed out into the dingy corridor . 
He went straight to the Presidential box . 
As usual , Mrs. Lincoln had lost her head , but nobody blamed her for doing so now . 
There was a little blood on the hem of her dress , for the assassin had slashed Miss Harris 's companion , Major Rathbone , with a knife . 
Rathbone said he was bleeding to death . 
By the look of him he was n't that far gone . 
