His son watched until he got as far as the hall , almost out of sight , then hurried after . 
" Dad . 
Dad , wait " . 
He caught up with the old man in the living room . 
Old man Arthur had put down the suitcase to open the front door . 
" Just this one favor , Dad . 
Just do n't tell Ferguson that crazy opinion of yours " . 
" Why not " ? ? 
The old man gave the room a stare in leaving ; ; under the scraggly brows the pale old eyes burned with a bitter memory . 
" It 's the truth " . 
" The Bartlett girl was killed by Mr. Dronk 's son . 
Rossi and Ferguson have been across the street , talking to the kid . 
They 've found some sort of new evidence , a bundle of clothes or something , and it must link the kid even stronger to the crime . 
Why wo n't you accept facts ? ? 
The two kids were together a lot , they were having some kind of teen-age affair -- God knows how far that had gone -- and the kid 's crippled . 
He limps , and the man who hit you and took the cane , he limped . 
My God , how much more do you want " ? ? 
His father looked him over closely . 
" You sound like an old woman . 
You should have gone to work today , 'stead of sneaking around spying on the Dronk house " . 
" Now , see here " -- " The trouble with you " , old man Arthur began , and then checked himself . 
Young Mrs. Arthur had opened the oven and there was a drifting odor of hot biscuits . 
The old man opened the door and stepped out into the sunlight . 
" Is n't enough time to go into it " , he finished , and slammed the door in his son 's face . 
Mrs. Holden turned from the window draperies . 
" They found something else up there " , she said half-aloud to the empty room . 
" They took it away , overalls or something " . 
She walked restlessly across the room , then back to the windows . 
" Now they 've gone , they did n't come back , and they did n't arrest that Dronk boy " . 
She stood frowning and chewing her lip . 
She was wearing a brown cotton dress , cut across the hips in a way that was supposed to make her look slimmer , a yoke set into the skirt and flaring pleats below . 
She smoothed the skirt , sat down , then stood up and went back to the windows . 
" Why on earth did I send him off to work ? ? 
There was excuse enough to keep him home that young Mr. Arthur 's still over there " . 
With sudden energy , she went to the phone and rang Holden 's office and asked for him . 
" I think you had better come home " . 
" Mae , we 're so busy . 
Mr. Crosson 's been on everybody 's neck , an order he expected did n't come through and he 's " -- " I do n't care . 
I want you here . 
I 'm all alone and certain things are going on that look very ominous . 
I need someone to go out and find out what 's happening " . 
" But I could n't do that , even if I were home " ! ! 
His voice grew high and trembling . 
" I ca n't be underfoot every time those cops turn around ! ! 
They 'll they 'll think I did something " . 
He could n't see the grin that split her mouth ; ; the teeth that shone into the phone were like a shark 's . 
" You 'll just have to risk it . 
You ca n't wander along in the dark , can you ? ? 
I 'd think that you even more than I would be wondering what they 're up to . 
They found some clothes " , she tossed in . 
" What " ? ? 
Deliberately , she ignored the yelp . 
" Also , that Mr. Ferguson was here . 
I guess he wants to ask you some questions . 
I stalled him off . 
He does n't expect you until five " . 
" Then I 'd better wait until five " . 
" No-o-o . 
Come home right away " . 
She slapped the receiver into its holder and stepped away . 
Her eyes were bright with anticipation . 
In his office , Mr. Holden replaced the phone slowly . 
He rose from his chair . 
He had to cough then ; ; he went to the window and choked there with the fresh breeze on his face . 
He got his hat out of the closet . 
For a moment he thought of going into Crosson 's office to explain that he had to leave , but there was now such a pain in his chest , such a pounding in his head , that he decided to let it go . 
He passed the receptionist in the outer office , muttering , " I 've got to go out for a little while " . 
Let her call Crosson if she wanted to , let Crosson raise the roof or even can him , he did n't care . 
He got into the car . 
Putting the key into the switch , pressing the accelerator with his foot , putting the car into reverse , seemed vast endeavors almost beyond the ability of his shaking body . 
Once out in the street , the traffic was a gadfly maze in which he wandered stricken . 
When he turned into the highway that led to the outskirts of the city and then rose toward home , he had to pull over to the curb and wait for a few minutes , sucking in air and squinting and blinking his eyes to clear them of tears . 
What on earth was in Mae 's mind , that she wanted him up there spying on what the cops were doing ? ? 
What did she think he could do ? ? 
He tried to ignore what his own common sense told him , but it was n't possible ; ; her motives were too blatant . 
She wanted him to get into trouble . 
She wanted the police to notice him , suspect him . 
She was going to keep on scheming , poking , prodding , suggesting , and dictating until the cops got up enough interest in him to go back to their old neighborhood and ask questions . 
And he knew in that moment , with a cold sinking of despair , a dying of old hopes , that Mae had spread some kind of word there among the neighbors . 
Nothing bald , open ; ; but enough . 
They 'd have some suspicions to repeat to the police . 
Though his inner thoughts cringed at it , he forced himself to think back , recreating the scene in which Mae claimed to have caught him molesting the child . 
It had n't amounted to anything . 
There had been nothing evil or dirty in his intentions . 
A second scene flashed before his mind , the interior of the garage at the new house and the young Bartlett girl turning startled to meet him , the dim dark and the sudden confusion and fear and then the brightness as Mae had clicked on the light . 
Suppose the cops somehow got hold of that ? ? 
Well , it had n't been what it seemed , he 'd had no idea the girl was in there . 
He had n't touched her . 
And when he came to examine the scene , there was a certain staginess to it , it had the smell of planning , and a swift suspicion darted into his mind . 
Too monstrous , of course . 
Mae would n't have plotted a thing like that . 
It was just that little accidents played into her hands . 
Like this murder . 
He leaned on the wheel , clutching it , staring into the sunlight , and tried to bring order into his thoughts . 
He felt light-headed and sick . 
There was no use wandering off into a territory of utter nightmare . 
Mae was his wife . 
She was married to him for better or for worse . 
She would n't be wilfully planning his destruction . 
But she was . 
She was . 
Even as the conviction of truth roared through him , shattering his last hope of safety , he was reaching to release the hand brake , to head up the road for home , doing her bidding . 
He drove , and the road wobbled , familiar scenes crept past on either side . 
He came to a stretch of old orange groves , the trees dead , some of them uprooted , and then there was an outlying shopping area , and tract houses . 
He had the feeling that he should abandon the car and run off somewhere to hide . 
But he could n't imagine where . 
There was really no place to go , finally , except home to Mae . 
At the gate he slowed , looking around . 
Cooper was beside his car , on the curb at the right , just standing there morosely ; ; he did n't even look up . 
Behind him on the steps of the little office sat old man Arthur ; ; he was straight , something angry in his attitude , as if he might be waiting to report something . 
Holden stepped on the gas . 
A new idea drifted in from nowhere . 
He could go to the police . 
He could tell them his fears of being involved , he could explain what had happened in the old neighborhood and how Mae had misunderstood and how she had held it over him -- the scene was complete in his mind at the moment , even to his own jerkings and snivelings , and Ferguson 's silent patience . 
He could throw himself on the mercy of the Police Department . 
It was n't what Mae would want him to do , though . 
He was sure of this . 
Once he had abandoned himself to the very worst , once he had quieted all the dragons of worry and suspense , there would n't be very much for Mae to do . 
At that moment , Holden almost slammed on the brakes to go back to Cooper and ask if Ferguson was about . 
It would be such a relief . 
What was that old sign , supposed to be painted over a door somewhere , Abandon hope , all ye who enter here ? ? 
Why , Holden said to himself , surprised at his own sudden insight , I 'll bet some of those people who enter are just as happy as can be . 
They 've worried , they 've lain awake nights , they 've shook at the slightest footstep , they 've pictured their own destruction , and now it 's all over and they can give up . 
Sure , they 're giving up hope . 
Hand in hand with hope went things like terror and apprehension . 
Good-bye . 
Holden waved a hand at the empty street . 
Glad to see you go . 
He drove into the paved space before the garage and got out , slamming the car door . 
He looked up and down the street . 
If Ferguson 's car had been in sight , Holden would have walked directly to it . 
He went to the front door and opened it and looked in . 
Mae entered the room from the hallway to the kitchen . 
She had a cup of something steaming , coffee perhaps , in one hand , a fresh piece of toast in the other . 
She stood there , watching Holden come in , and she put the piece of toast in her mouth and bit off one corner with a huge chomp of her white teeth . 
" Mae " -- " I 've been thinking " , she said , swallowing the toast . 
" Did n't you have an old pair of painting overalls in the garage ? ? 
You used them that time you painted the porch at our other house . 
And then you wiped up some grease " . 
She had caught him off guard , no preparation , nothing certain but that ahead lay some kind of disaster . 
" No . 
Wait a minute . 
What do you " -- " I 've been looking for them , and they 're gone . 
I 'm sure they were in the garage up until a couple of days ago . 
Or even yesterday . 
You used to paint in them , and then you just took them for rags . 
The police have them now " . 
" I do n't remember any overalls at all " . 
" They were all faded . 
Worn through at the knees " . 
She stood sipping and chewing and watching . 
" Green paint , was n't it ? ? 
Well , I 'm not sure of the color . 
But you had them " . 
" Mae , sit down . 
Put down the cup of coffee . 
Tell me what this is all about " . 
She shook her head . 
She took another bite of toast . 
Holden noticed almost absently how she chewed , how the whole side of her cheek moved , a slab of fat that extended down into her neck . 
" My goodness , you ought to remember if I do . 
You 're going to have to go to the police and explain what happened . 
Tell them the truth or something before they come here " . 
A seeping coldness entered Holden 's being ; ; his nerves seemed frost-bitten down to the tips of his tingling fingers and his spine felt stiff and glass-like , liable to break like an icicle at any moment . 
" I 've never owned any painting overalls . 
