" Well " -- said Mr. Skyros . 
" I take a little time to think it over " . 
It was awkward : very awkward . 
There would be all the nuisance of contacting someone else to take over . 
Someone reasonably trustworthy . 
And Angie would hear about it . 
And Angie knew -- " Time " , said Angie , and he smiled very sweet and slow at Mr. Skyros . 
" Not too much time , because I 'll be needing some more myself pretty much right away . 
And I done favors for you , big favor not so long back , did n't I , and I 'm right here to take on where Pretty left off . 
No trouble . 
I do n't want no trouble , you do n't want no trouble , nobody wants trouble , Mr. Skyros " . 
Dear heaven , no , thought Mr. Skyros , turning away as another man came in . 
He straightened his tie at the mirror with a shaking hand ; ; the genial smile seemed painted on his face . 
Angie knew -- Speak of dangerous information ! ! 
Angie knew too much entirely already . 
Really he had Mr. Skyros at bay " Big favor I done you . 
Acourse there 's this deal o ' Denny 's -- and Jackie 's -- kinda hangin ' fire , ai n't it , maybe you 've been kinda worryin ' over that . 
And ca n't say I blame you " , said Angie thoughtfully . 
" This deal with the ace o ' spades . 
Anything to do with an ace o ' spades , bad luck " . 
Ace of spades -- a widow , that was what they called a widow , these low-class crooks remembered Mr. Skyros distractedly . 
All about that Angie knew , too . 
When things got a little out of hand , they very rapidly got a lot out of hand -- it seemed to be a general rule . 
All just by chance , and in a way tracing back to poor Frank , all of it , because naturally -- brothers , living together -- and Angie -- Mr. Skyros did not at all like the look on Angelo 's regular-featured , almost girlishly good-looking face -- or indeed anything about Angelo . 
Mr. Skyros was not a man who thought very much about moral principles ; ; he found money much more interesting ; ; but all the same he thought now , uneasily , of the way in which Angelo earned his living -- and paid for his own stuff -- and eyed the soft smile , and the spaniel-like dark eyes , and he felt a little ill . 
" Look , my friend " , he said , " in my life I learn , how is it the proverb says , better an ounce of prevention to a pound of cure . 
I stay in business so long because I 'm careful . 
Two weeks , a month , we talk it over again , and maybe if nothing happens meanwhile to say the cops know this and that , then we make a little deal , is n't it " ? ? 
" That 's a long while " , said Angie . 
" I tell you , you want to leave it that way , I do n't fool around with it . 
I go over to Castro and get fixed up there . 
I ca n't wait no two weeks " . 
And Mr. Skyros did n't like Angie , but what with Prettyman and three of his boys inside , and not likely to come out -- And Angie such a valuable salesman , Prettyman said -- All the nuisance and danger of getting in touch with practically a whole new bunch of boys -- Why did everything have to happen at once ? ? 
Denny said stupidly , " Why , you ai n't turning Angie down , are you , Mr. Skyros ? ? 
I mean , we all figured -- I guess anybody 'd figure -- Angie " -- Angelo gave him an affectionate smile . 
" Mr. Skyros too smart a fellow want to get rid of me " , he said . 
" It 's O.K. , Denny , everything 's O.K. Ai n't it , Mr. Skyros " ? ? 
Oh , God , the name repeated over and over , anybody to hear -- Not being a fool , Mr. Skyros knew why . 
But aside from everything else , it would scarcely be pleasant to have dealings with one who was nominally an underling and actually held -- you could say -- the whip hand . 
And all because of Domokous ! ! 
If Mr. Skyros had dreamed of all the trouble that young man would eventually cause -- Of course , there was another factor . 
Angie worth his weight in gold right now , but these users , they sometimes went down fast . 
Who knew , Angie might not last long . 
The sweat broke out on Mr. Skyros ' forehead as he realized he had been actually thinking -- hoping -- planning -- perhaps -- Good God above , had not Domokous been enough ? ? 
He patted Angelo 's thin shoulder paternally . 
" Now you do n't want to go talking that way " , he said . 
" Sure , sure , you 're the one take over for Pretty , soon as I get the supply , get started up again , is n't it ? ? 
You do n't need worry , Angelo . 
I tell you , I know how it is with you , my friend , I sympathize , and I 'll make it a special point -- a special favor -- get in touch , and get some stuff just for you . 
I do n't know if I can manage it tonight or tomorrow , but I 'll try my best , my friend . 
You see , you got to remember , we all got schedules , like any business ! ! 
My man , he wo n't be around a little while , he just fixed me up with this stuff they took out of the Elite . 
It 's awkward , you see that , is n't it " ? ? 
" Well , that 's your business , Mr. Skyros " , said Angie , and his dreamy eyes moved past Mr. Skyros ' shoulder to gaze vaguely out the ground-glass window . 
" I appreciate it , you do that . 
Sure . 
We do n't none of us want no trouble . 
I 'm in a room over the Golden Club on San Pedro , you just ask for me there , you want see me . 
Or maybe I call you -- tonight ? ? 
About nine o'clock , I call and see if you got any . 
A couple decks for me , Mr. Skyros -- and ten-twelve to sell , see , I like to have a little ready cash " . 
" Oh , now , I do n't know about that much " , said Mr. Skyros . 
" And you know , Angelo , Pretty , he always keeps it a strict cash basis , like they say " -- " Sure " , said Angie . 
" Sure , Mr. Skyros . 
Fifty a throw , that the deal ? ? 
Sure . 
I bring you the cash , say five hundred for ten decks . 
Never mind how much I cut it , how much I get " , and he smiled his sleepy smile again . 
" Standard deal , Mr. Skyros . 
You go 'n ' have a look round for it " . 
" I do my best " , said Mr. Skyros earnestly , " just for you , my friend . 
This is awkward for everybody , is n't it , we all got to put up with inconvenience sometimes . 
But I do my best for you " . 
He got out of there in a hurry , brushing past another man in the door , mopping his brow . 
The expedient thing -- yes , very true , one must make do as one could , in some situations . 
It could all be straightened out later . 
Not very much later , but when things had settled down a little . 
After this deal with the Bouvardier woman went through . 
An ace of spades . 
He was not a superstitious man , but he felt perhaps there was a little something in that , indeed . 
He rather wished he had never got into the business , and still -- scarcely to be resisted , a nice little profit with not much work involved , easy money Katya Roslev , who would be Katharine Ross so very soon now , rang up her first sale of the day and counted back the change . 
She did not notice that the customer seized her purchase and turned away without a smile or a word of thanks . 
Usually she marked the few who did thank you , you did n't get that kind much in a place like this : and she played a little game with herself , seeing how downright rude she could act to the others , before they 'd take offense , threaten to call the manager . 
Funny how seldom they did : used to it , probably . 
The kind who came into a cheap store like this ! ! 
Grab , snatch , I saw that first ! ! 
And , Here , I 'll take this , I was before her , you wait on me now or I do n't bother with it , see ! ! 
This kind of place She 'd be through here , just no time at all -- leave this kind of thing 'way behind . 
Off at noon , and she 'd never come back . 
Never have to . 
Money -- a lot of money , enough . 
She 'd be smart about it , get him to give it to her in little bills so 's nobody would suspect -- maybe could n't get it until Monday account of that , the banks -- But that was n't really long to wait . 
Not when she 'd waited so long already . 
No need say anything at all to the old woman . 
She had it all planned out , how she 'd do . 
She 'd say she did n't feel good on Sunday , could n't go to church -- there 'd be a little argument , but she could be stubborn -- and when the old woman had gone , quick pack the things she 'd need to take , all but the dress she 'd wear Monday , and take the bag down to that place in the station where you could put things in a locker overnight , for a dime . 
Then on Monday morning -- or it might have to be Tuesday -- get up and leave just the usual time , and last thing , put the money in an envelope under the old woman 's purse there in the drawer . 
She would n't be going to get that for an hour or so after Katya had left , go do the daily shopping . 
No need leave a note with it , either -- or maybe just something like , Do n't worry about me , I 'm going away to make a better life . 
A better life . 
Escape . 
It was n't as if she wanted much . 
She did n't mind working hard , not as if she figured to do anything wrong to live easy and soft -- all she wanted was a chance , where she was n't marked as what she was . 
To be Katharine Ross , and work in a nicer shop somewhere , at a little more money so she could have prettier clothes , and learn ladies ' manners and all like that , and get to know different people than up to now , not just the ones like her here , with foreign-sounding names , the ones went to the same church and -- Different place , different job , different people , she 'd be all different too . 
Prettier , she 'd do her hair another way ; ; smarter , and wear different kinds of clothes -- she 'd be Katharine Ross , just what that sounded like . 
" You 've give me the wrong change " , said the customer sharply . 
" Think I ca n't count " ? ? 
Katya made up the amount in indifferent silence . 
She was listening to other voices , out of the future . 
Some of those vaguely-imagined new , different people . 
Oh , Katharine 's awfully nice , and pretty too , I like Katharine -- Let 's ask Katharine to go with us , she 's always lots of fun -- Katharine -- Soon , very soon now sixteen Mendoza did n't wake until nearly nine-thirty . 
It was going to be another hot day ; ; already the thermometer stood close to ninety . 
Alison was still sound asleep ; ; he made fresh coffee and searched through all the desk drawers for more cigarettes before thinking of her handbag , and found a crumpled stray cigarette at its bottom , which tasted peculiarly of face powder . 
He left a note propped on the desk asking her to call him sometime today , and drove home . 
After he 'd got out fresh liver for Bast , he paused to look at her crouched daintily over her dish . 
Surely she was just a trifle fatter around the middle ? ? 
He seemed to remember reading somewhere that Abyssinians had large litters , and suffered a dismaying vision of the apartment overrun with a dozen kittens . 
" Y que sigue despues ? ? 
-- What then " ? ? 
He asked her severely . 
" A lot of people are so peculiar that they do n't like cats , it 's not the easiest thing in the world to find good homes for kittens -- and , damn it , you know very well if I have them around long , impossible to give them away ! ! 
And I suppose now that you 've finally grown up , if a little late , you 'd go on producing kittens every six months or so . 
Yes , well , it 's a pity to spoil your girlish figure -- which all those kittens would do anyway -- but I think when you 've raised these we 'll just have the vet fix it so there wo n't be any more . 
I wonder if the Carters would take one . 
And it 's no good looking at me like that " , as she wound affectionately around his ankles . 
