Now that he knew himself to be self he was free to grok ever closer to his brothers , merge without let . 
Self 's integrity was and is and ever had been . 
Mike stopped to cherish all his brother selves , the many threes-fulfilled on Mars , corporate and discorporate , the precious few on Earth -- the unknown powers of three on Earth that would be his to merge with and cherish now that at last long waiting he grokked and cherished himself . 
Mike remained in trance ; ; there was much to grok , loose ends to puzzle over and fit into his growing -- all that he had seen and heard and been at the Archangel Foster Tabernacle ( not just cusp when he and Digby had come face to face alone ) why Bishop Senator Boone made him warily uneasy , how Miss Dawn Ardent tasted like a water brother when she was not , the smell of goodness he had incompletely grokked in the jumping up and down and wailing -- Jubal 's conversations coming and going -- Jubal 's words troubled him most ; ; he studied them , compared them with what he had been taught as a nestling , struggling to bridge between languages , the one he thought with and the one he was learning to think in . 
The word " church " which turned up over and over again among Jubal 's words gave him knotty difficulty ; ; there was no Martian concept to match it -- unless one took " church " and " worship " and " God " and " congregation " and many other words and equated them to the totality of the only world he had known during growing-waiting then forced the concept back into English in that phrase which had been rejected ( by each differently ) by Jubal , by Mahmoud , by Digby . 
" Thou art God " . 
He was closer to understanding it in English now , although it could never have the inevitability of the Martian concept it stood for . 
In his mind he spoke simultaneously the English sentence and the Martian word and felt closer grokking . 
Repeating it like a student telling himself that the jewel is in the lotus he sank into nirvana . 
Before midnight he speeded his heart , resumed normal breathing , ran down his check list , uncurled and sat up . 
He had been weary ; ; now he felt light and gay and clear-headed , ready for the many actions he saw spreading out before him . 
He felt a puppyish need for company as strong as his earlier necessity for quiet . 
He stepped out into the hall , was delighted to encounter a water brother . 
" Hi " ! ! 
" Oh . 
Hello , Mike . 
My , you look chipper " . 
" I feel fine ! ! 
Where is everybody " ? ? 
" Asleep . 
Ben and Stinky went home an hour ago and people started going to bed " . 
" Oh " . 
Mike felt disappointed that Mahmoud had left ; ; he wanted to explain his new grokking . 
" I ought to be asleep , too , but I felt like a snack . 
Are you hungry " ? ? 
" Sure , I 'm hungry " ! ! 
" Come on , there 's some cold chicken and we 'll see what else " . 
They went downstairs , loaded a tray lavishly . 
" Let 's take it outside . 
It 's plenty warm " . 
" A fine idea " , Mike agreed . 
" Warm enough to swim -- real Indian summer . 
I 'll switch on the floods " . 
" Don't bother " , Mike answered . 
" I 'll carry the tray " . 
He could see in almost total darkness . 
Jubal said that his night-sight probably came from the conditions in which he had grown up , and Mike grokked this was true but grokked that there was more to it ; ; his foster parents had taught him to see . 
As for the night being warm , he would have been comfortable naked on Mount Everest but his water brothers had little tolerance for changes in temperature and pressure ; ; he was considerate of their weakness , once he learned of it . 
But he was looking forward to snow -- seeing for himself that each tiny crystal of the water of life was a unique individual , as he had read -- walking barefoot , rolling in it . 
In the meantime he was pleased with the warm night and the still more pleasing company of his water brother . 
" Okay , take the tray . 
I 'll switch on the underwater lights . 
That 'll be plenty to eat by " . 
" Fine " . 
Mike liked having light up through the ripples ; ; it was a goodness , beauty . 
They picnicked by the pool , then lay back on the grass and looked at stars . 
" Mike , there 's Mars . 
It is Mars , isn't it ? ? 
Or Antares " ? ? 
" It is Mars " . 
" Mike ? ? 
What are they doing on Mars " ? ? 
He hesitated ; ; the question was too wide for the sparse English language . 
" On the side toward the horizon -- the southern hemisphere -- it is spring ; ; plants are being taught to grow " . 
" ' Taught to grow ' " ? ? 
He hesitated . 
" Larry teaches plants to grow . 
I have helped him . 
But my people -- Martians , I mean ; ; I now grok you are my people -- teach plants another way . 
In the other hemisphere it is growing colder and nymphs , those who stayed alive through the summer , are being brought into nests for quickening and more growing " . 
He thought . 
" Of the humans we left at the equator , one has discorporated and the others are sad " . 
Yes , I heard it in the news " . 
Mike had not heard it ; ; he had not known it until asked . 
" They should not be sad . 
Mr. Booker T.W. Jones Food Technician First Class is not sad ; ; the Old Ones have cherished him " . 
" You knew him " ? ? 
" Yes . 
He had his own face , dark and beautiful . 
But he was homesick " . 
" Oh , dear ! ! 
Mike do you ever get homesick ? ? 
For Mars " ? ? 
" At first I was homesick " , he answered . 
" I was lonely always " . 
He rolled toward her and took her in his arms . 
" But now I am not lonely . 
I grok I shall never be lonely again " . 
" Mike darling " -- They kissed , and went on kissing . 
Presently his water brother said breathlessly . 
" Oh , my ! ! 
That was almost worse than the first time " . 
" You are all right , my brother " ? ? 
" Yes . 
Yes indeed . 
Kiss me again " . 
A long time later , by cosmic clock , she said , " Mike ? ? 
Is that -- I mean , ' Do you know ' " -- " I know . 
It is for growing closer . 
Now we grow closer " . 
" Well I 've been ready a long time -- goodness , we all have , but never mind , dear ; ; turn just a little . 
I 'll help " . 
As they merged , grokking together , Mike said softly and triumphantly : " Thou art God " . 
Her answer was not in words . 
Then , as their grokking made them ever closer and Mike felt himself almost ready to discorporate her voice called him back : " Oh ! ! 
Oh ! ! 
Thou art God " ! ! 
" We grok God " . 
25 . 
On Mars humans were building pressure domes for the male and female party that would arrive by next ship . 
This went faster than scheduled as the Martians were helpful . 
Part of the time saved was spent on a preliminary estimate for a long-distance plan to free bound oxygen in the sands of Mars to make the planet more friendly to future human generations . 
The Old Ones neither helped nor hindered this plan ; ; time was not yet . 
Their meditations were approaching a violent cusp that would shape Martian art for many millennia . 
On Earth elections continued and a very advanced poet published a limited edition of verse consisting entirely of punctuation marks and spaces ; ; Time magazine reviewed it and suggested that the Federation Assembly Daily Record should be translated into the medium . 
A colossal campaign opened to sell more sexual organs of plants and Mrs. Joseph ( " Shadow of Greatness " ) Douglas was quoted as saying : " I would no more sit down without flowers on my table than without serviettes " . 
A Tibetan swami from Palermo , Sicily , announced in Beverly Hills a newly discovered , ancient yoga discipline for ripple breathing which increased both pranha and cosmic attraction between sexes . 
His chelas were required to assume the matsyendra posture dressed in hand-woven diapers while he read aloud from Rig-Veda and an assistant guru examined their purses in another room -- nothing was stolen ; ; the purpose was less immediate . 
The President of the United States proclaimed the first Sunday in November as " National Grandmothers ' Day " and urged America to say it with flowers . 
A funeral parlor chain was indicted for price-cutting . 
Fosterite bishops , after secret conclave , announced the Church 's second Major Miracle : Supreme Bishop Digby had been translated bodily to Heaven and spot-promoted to Archangel , ranking with-but-after Archangel Foster . 
The glorious news had been held up pending Heavenly confirmation of the elevation of a new Supreme Bishop , Huey Short -- a candidate accepted by the Boone faction after lots had been cast repeatedly . 
L'Unita and Hoy published identical denunciations of Short 's elevation , l'Osservatore Romano and the Christian Science Monitor ignored it , Times of India snickered at it , and the Manchester Guardian simply reported it -- the Fosterites in England were few but extremely militant . 
Digby was not pleased with his promotion . 
The Man from Mars had interrupted him with his work half finished -- and that stupid jackass Short was certain to louse it up . 
Foster listened with angelic patience until Digby ran down , then said , " Listen , junior , you 're an angel now -- so forget it . 
Eternity is no time for recriminations . 
You too were a stupid jackass until you poisoned me . 
Afterwards you did well enough . 
Now that Short is Supreme Bishop he 'll do all right , he can't help it . 
Same as with the Popes . 
Some of them were warts until they got promoted . 
Check with one of them , go ahead -- there 's no professional jealousy here " . 
Digby calmed down , but made one request . 
Foster shook his halo . 
" You can't touch him . 
You shouldn't have tried to . 
Oh , you can submit a requisition for a miracle if you want to make a fool of yourself . 
But , I 'm telling you , it 'll be turned down -- you don't understand the System yet . 
The Martians have their own setup , different from ours , and as long as they need him , we can't touch him . 
They run their show their way -- the Universe has variety , something for everybody -- a fact you field workers often miss " . 
" You mean this punk can brush me aside and I 've got to hold still for it " ? ? 
" I held still for the same thing , didn't I ? ? 
I 'm helping you now , am I not ? ? 
Now look , there 's work to be done and lots of it . 
The Boss wants performance , not gripes . 
If you need a Day off to calm down , duck over to the Muslim Paradise and take it . 
Otherwise , straighten your halo , square your wings , and dig in . 
The sooner you act like an angel the quicker you 'll feel angelic . 
Get Happy , junior " ! ! 
Digby heaved a deep ethereal sigh . 
" Okay , I 'm Happy . 
Where do I start " ? ? 
Jubal did not hear of Digby 's disappearance when it was announced , and , when he did , while he had a fleeting suspicion , he dismissed it ; ; if Mike had had a finger in it , he had gotten away with it -- and what happened to supreme bishops worried Jubal not at all as long as he wasn't bothered . 
His household had gone through an upset . 
Jubal deduced what had happened but did not know with whom -- and didn't want to inquire . 
Mike was of legal age and presumed able to defend himself in the clinches . 
Anyhow , it was high time the boy was salted . 
Jubal couldn't reconstruct the crime from the way the girls behaved because patterns kept shifting -- ABC vs D , then BCD vs A or AB vs CD , or AD vs CB , through all ways that four women can gang up on each other . 
This continued most of the week following that ill-starred trip to church , during which period Mike stayed in his room and usually in a trance so deep that Jubal would have pronounced him dead had he not seen it before . 
Jubal would not have minded it if service had not gone to pieces . 
The girls seemed to spend half their time tiptoeing in " to see if Mike was all right " and they were too preoccupied to cook , much less be secretaries . 
Even rock-steady Anne -- Hell , Anne was the worst ! ! 
Absent-minded , subject to unexplained tears Jubal would have bet his life that if Anne were to witness the Second Coming , she would memorize date , time , personae , events , and barometric pressure without batting her calm blue eyes . 
