Sulphur , oil , and copra make the kind of tinder any firebug dreams of . 
I suppose a Lascar sailor had sneaked a cigarette in the hold and touched off the blaze . 
Now , roaring up in great oily clouds of smoke and flames , the fierce heat quickly drove us to the stern where we huddled like suffocating sheep , not knowing what to do . 
The lifeboats were stuck fast . 
We could n't budge them . 
I heard a cry from a stoker as a pillar of flame leaped from a hatch and tongued the man 's bare back . 
He sprinted to the rail and leaped overboard into the shark-infested waters . 
One especially bad detonation shook Lifeboat No. 3 which trembled violently in the davits . 
Brassnose yelled : " Come on , Sommers , Max step on it , we got a chance now . 
Heave on those ropes ; ; the boat 's come unstuck " . 
We pulled and swore and yanked and wept , scraping our hands until they bled profusely . 
The Bonaventure was quivering and lurching like an old spavined mare . 
Her stern was down and a sharp list helped us to cut loose the lifeboat which dropped heavily into the water . 
Brassnose , Max and I leaped into the sea and swam to the boat . 
" Let 's get away fast " , said Brassnose , shaking water from his mop of bleached hair . 
" That tub is going to explode all at once " . 
Then the Bonaventure seemed to disintegrate with a roar of live steam , geysers of sparks and flames , and a dense cloud of black-and-orange smoke . 
Dimly , we heard the voices of men in mortal agony but we could n't go back into that inferno . 
Already our leaky lifeboat was filled with five inches of water . 
" Sommers , you bale while we row " , Brassnose commanded . 
As best as I could determine , we were some 700 miles west of New Guinea , in the Bismark Archipelago . 
Three days previously , we had steamed past barren Rennell Island in the distance . 
Now we peered anxiously for any speck of land in the Pacific , for this interminable bailing would have to stop soon . 
There were gigantic blisters and rope burns on our hands ; ; our muscles were hot wires of pain . 
Brassnose was strangely silent . 
The big man with the whitened hair murmured something : his words sounded as if they were in the Manu tongue , which I recognized , having studied the dialect in my Anthropology 6 , class at the University of Chicago . 
He then said something which struck a chord in my memory . 
" God help us if we 're near the island of Eromonga . 
We 'd be in real trouble then . 
I 'd rather keep bailing -- or sink " . 
I was puzzled by the remark , then I recalled the voice of mild Professor Howard Griggs three years ago in a university lecture on primitive societies . 
He had been speaking of this archipelago : " Even when the islands were under German mandate before World War 1 , , Europeans gave Eromonga a wide berth . 
The place is inhabited by several hundred warlike women who are anachronisms of the Twentieth Century -- stone age amazons who live in an all-female , matriarchal society which is self-sufficient " . 
I remembered , too , the jesting voice of a classmate , Bobby Pauson : " But how do they reproduce , Dr. Griggs ? ? 
I 'm sure that males have something to do with that process " ! ! 
There had been classroom guffaws which quickly subsided as Professor Griggs said dryly : " I see your point , Pauson . 
Of course , males play a role there , but believe me when I say you would n't enjoy yourself one bit on Eromonga . 
Indeed , you would n't live long , for the females either drive the men they 've seized from neighboring islands back to their boats after exploiting them for amatory purposes , or they destroy them by revolting but ingenious methods . 
In fact , one important aspect of their very religion is the annihilation of men " . 
" I think I know what you mean , Brassnose " , I said . 
" I know something about Eromonga . 
Let 's hope we come to a safer place " . 
But we did n't . 
Three hours later , while we were bailing desperately , a dot of land came into view . 
Foster Lukuklu Frayne made a sign over his heart with his two linked thumbs : I recognized it as an ancient Manu gesture intended to propitiate the Devil . 
A half-hour passed ; ; we had drifted closer . 
In a voice so frightened as to seem not his own , the big bo'sun's mate quavered : " Tchalo ! ! 
It is Eromonga -- look hard , you can see with your naked eye the wooden scaffolding on the cliff " . 
I squinted at the looming shoreline . 
There was a wooden tower or derrick there , something like a ski jump ; ; it was perhaps 80 feet high and had been artfully constructed of logs . 
A fine example of engineering in a primitive society . 
" What is the scaffolding for , Brassnose " ? ? 
He made a sound of despair deep in his throat . 
It was embarrassing to see strapping , blonde Brassnose comport himself like a child who talks about bogeymen . 
" Aaa-ee ! ! 
It is their tultul , the ' jumping platform ' of death . 
It is the last of the three tests of manhood which the women impose , to discover if a male is worthy of survival there . 
Often , I heard my uncles and cousins speak of it when I was a small boy growing up in Rabaul . 
They had never seen a tultul but they had heard about it from their fathers " . 
Our lifeboat was filling rapidly and despite what I had heard of the inhabitants of Eromonga , I was glad to see a long and graceful outrigger manned by three bronzed girls glide out of a lagoon into the open sea and toward our craft . 
I expected Brassnose -- as a man with a strain of Melanesian in his blood -- to speak to them . 
But he had turned a sickly green and appeared tongue-tied or panicked . 
So , I mustered my few words of the Manu dialect and said , " We greet you in peace . 
In ngandlu . 
My friends and I come from a ship which was destroyed by fire . 
We are thirsty and hungry ; ; our sore and burned hands and arms need attention " . 
The girl in the prow of the outrigger turned a smile like a beacon on me . 
I noted that her full breasts were bare and that she wore a garland of red pandanus fruit in her blue-black hair . 
She said , " My name is Songau and these girls are Ponkob and Piwen . 
You are welcome to Eromonga . 
My people await you on the shore . 
You shall have food , water and rest " . 
Thirty minutes later , the outrigger grated on sand and other girls , waiting on shore , rushed forward to pull it up on the beach and make it fast with vine ropes to a large boulder . 
I saw a dozen or so other outriggers moored there . 
I looked . 
All my rosy visions of rest and even pleasure on this island vanished at the sight . 
There was a mound of bleached human bones and skulls at the base of the big wooden derrick . 
Some had been there for years ; ; others still had whitened shreds of decayed flesh sticking to them . 
There was one object which sickened yet fascinated me . 
This was also a corpse -- a male , judging from the coral arm bands , the tribal scars still discernible on the maggoty face , the painted bone of the warrior caste which still pierced the septum of the rotting nose . 
The body may have been two or three weeks ' dead . 
I looked with revulsion at the legs . 
They were shattered . 
Many small bones protruded crazily from the shreds of flesh . 
The man must have leaped to his death from the topmost rung of the tultul . 
As if divining my thoughts , the girl Songau smiled warmly and said in the casual tone an American woman might use in describing her rose garden : " This is our tultul , a jumping platform , aku . 
Later , you shall know it better . 
Is it not well-made ? ? 
Our old one blew down in a storm at the time of the pokeneu festival fifteen moons ago . 
It took thirty of our women almost six moons to build this one , which is higher and stronger than the old one . 
We are very proud of it " . 
" You have every right to be " , I replied gravely in the Manu dialect , but my attention was fixed on Brassnose , the biggest and strongest of us . 
He looked as if he was going to keel over . 
I felt a queasiness in my own stomach but it would n't do to show these girls that we were afraid . 
Not so soon , anyway . 
I clapped the big man with the bleached hair on his shoulder and said heartily , hoping it would make an impression on the women : " This one is the maku Frayne . 
He speaks your language too , for he is the grandson of a chieftain on Taui who made much magic and was strong and cunning . 
The maku Frayne has inherited this strength from his grandfather " . 
This was the worst thing I could have said . 
Brassnose turned a stricken face toward me and said brokenly , " Sommers , you meddling Yank , you 're a fool ! ! 
They despise males who brag of their strength ; ; they destroy such men with their damned tests . 
You 've ruined me , blast you " ! ! 
At first , I thought he was out of his head , talking wildly like this . 
But a glance at Songau and the other women confirmed what Brassnose had blurted out . 
The women 's faces had hardened after my statement . 
At a nod from Songau , four lithe and muscular girls darted to Frayne 's side and seized him by the arms . 
The man was an ox and he put up a creditable struggle ; ; but four Eromonga women are more than a match for the strongest male that ever lived . 
Besides , terror had sapped some of Frayne 's vitality and will . 
My last impression as they led him off to a stockade was of his pale face . 
In the Manu tongue , " eromonga " means manhood -- a quality which the women derisively toasted in weekly feasts at which great quantities of a brew like kava were imbibed . 
In the hut to which I was assigned -- Max had his own quarters -- my food was brought to me by a wrinkled crone with bare drooping breasts who seemed to enjoy conversing with me in rudimentary phrases . 
Her name was L'Turu and she told me many things . 
For an anthropologist , loquacious old L'Turu was a mine of information . 
Though I had a great dread of the island and felt I would never leave it alive , I eagerly wrote down everything she told me about its women . 
( Her account was later confirmed by the Scobee-Frazier Expedition from the University of Manitoba in 1951 . 
) From L'Turu , I heard that until about 1850 the people of this island -- which was about the size of Guam or smaller -- had been of both sexes , and that the normal family life of Melanesian tribes was observed here with minor variations . 
But in the middle of the last century an island woman named " Karipo " seized a spear in the heat of an inter-tribal battle and rallied the women after their men had fled . 
Miraculously , Karipo and her women had succeeded in driving a hundred invaders from the isle of Pamasu back to their war canoes , after considerable loss of life on both sides . 
Karipo was something of a politician as well as a militarist . 
She quickly exploited the exalted position she now occupied , by harassing the disorganized males and even putting many of them to death . 
Within a decade or less , few men were left and a feminist society had sprung up . 
" Karipo was great goddess , told our mothers that men were not necessary except to father children " , the crone told me . 
" All men went away from here . 
Those who stayed had to pass tests . 
Few passed " . 
She cackled with mirth , showing the stumps of betel-stained teeth . 
" Karipo 's women then named this place ' Eromonga ' -- manhood -- for just the strongest men could stay here . 
Come , I show you " . 
The old woman arose stiffly and led me to a clearing where a small hut stood . 
In the shade of a palm tree in front of the squalid dwelling I saw four figures in a semi-circle on the ground . 
