Dan Morgan told himself he would forget Ann Turner . 
He was well rid of her . 
He certainly did n't want a wife who was fickle as Ann . 
If he had married her , he 'd have been asking for trouble . 
But all of this was rationalization . 
Sometimes he woke up in the middle of the night thinking of Ann , and then could not get back to sleep . 
His plans and dreams had revolved around her so much and for so long that now he felt as if he had nothing . 
The easiest thing would be to sell out to Al Budd and leave the country , but there was a stubborn streak in him that would n't allow it . 
The best antidote for the bitterness and disappointment that poisoned him was hard work . 
He found that if he was tired enough at night , he went to sleep simply because he was too exhausted to stay awake . 
Each day he found himself thinking less often of Ann ; ; each day the hurt was a little duller , a little less poignant . 
He had plenty of work to do . 
Because the summer was unusually dry and hot , the spring produced a smaller stream than in ordinary years . 
The grass in the meadows came fast , now that the warm weather was here . 
He could not afford to lose a drop of the precious water , so he spent most of his waking hours along the ditches in his meadows . 
He had no idea how much time Budd would give him . 
In any case , he had no intention of being caught asleep , so he carried his revolver in its holster on his hip and he took his Winchester with him and leaned it against the fence . 
He stopped every few minutes and leaned on his shovel as he studied the horizon , but nothing happened , each day dragging out with monotonous calm . 
When , in late afternoon on the last day in June , he saw two people top the ridge to the south and walk toward the house , he quit work immediately and strode to his rifle . 
It could be some kind of trick Budd had thought up . 
No one walked in this country , least of all Ed Dow or Dutch Renfro or any of the rest of the Bar B crew . 
Morgan watched the two figures for a time , puzzled . 
When they were closer and he saw that one was a woman , he was more puzzled than ever . 
He cleaned his shovel , left it against the fence , picked up his Winchester , and started downstream . 
His visitors had crawled through the south fence and were crossing the meadow , angling toward the house . 
Now he saw that both the man and woman were moving slowly and irregularly , staggering , as if they found it a struggle to remain on their feet . 
Reaching the house ahead of them , he waited with his Winchester in his hands . 
They crawled through the north fence and came on toward him , and now he saw that both were young , not more than nineteen or twenty . 
They were dirty , their clothes were torn , and the girl was so exhausted that she fell when she was still twenty feet from the front door . 
She lay there , making no effort to get back on her feet . 
The boy came on to the porch and sat down , his gaze on Morgan as if half expecting him to shoot and not really caring . 
Morgan hesitated , thinking that if this was a trick , it was a good one . 
He did n't think it was possible for this couple to be pretending . 
The boy licked his dry lips . 
He asked , " Could we have a drink " ? ? 
Morgan jerked his head toward the front door . 
" In the kitchen " , he said . 
Leaning his Winchester against the front of the house , he walked to the girl . 
" Get up . 
There 's water in the house " . 
She did n't move or say anything . 
Her eyes were glazed as if she did n't hear or even see him . 
She had reached a point at which she did n't even care how she looked . 
Her face was very thin , and burned by the sun until much of the skin was dead and peeling , the new skin under it red and angry . 
Her blond hair was frowzy , her dress torn in several places , and her shoes were so completely worn out that they were practically no protection . 
It must have hurt her even to walk , for the sole was completely off her left foot and Morgan saw that it was bruised and bleeding . 
He picked her up , sliding one hand under her shoulders , the other under her knees , and carried her into the house . 
She was amazingly light , and so relaxed in his arms that he was n't even sure she was conscious . 
Any lingering suspicion that this was a trick Al Budd had thought up was dispelled . 
No girl would go this far to fool a man so she could kill him . 
Besides , she had a sweet face that attracted him . 
He put her down on the couch , and going into the kitchen , saw that the boy had dropped into a chair beside the table . 
They looked a good deal alike , Morgan thought . 
Both had blonde hair and blue eyes , and there was even a faint similarity of features . 
Morgan filled the dipper from the water bucket on the shelf , went back into the front room , lifted the girl 's head , and held the edge of the dipper to her mouth . 
She drank greedily , and murmured , " Thank you " , as he lowered her head . 
He stood looking down at her for a moment , wondering what could have reduced her to this condition . 
He had seen a few nester wagons go through the country , the families almost starving to death , but he had never seen any of them on foot and as bad off as these two . 
The girl dropped off to sleep . 
Morgan returned to the kitchen , built a fire , and carried in several buckets of water from the spring which he poured into the copper boiler that he had placed on the stove . 
He brought his Winchester in from the front of the house , then faced the boy . 
" Who are you and what happened to you " ? ? 
He asked . 
" I 'm Billy Jones " , the boy answered . 
" That 's my wife Sharon . 
We ran out of money and we have n't eaten for two days " . 
" What are you doing here " ? ? 
" Are we in Wyoming " ? ? 
Morgan nodded . 
" About five miles north of the line " . 
Jones sighed as if relieved . 
" We 've been looking for work , but all the ranchers have turned us down " . 
" You mean you dragged your wife all over hell 's half-acre looking for work " ? ? 
Morgan demanded . 
" The town of Buckhorn 's only about six miles from here . 
Why did n't you go there " ? ? 
" We did n't want town work " , Jones said . 
" This is a mighty empty country " , Morgan said . 
" There 's only one more ranch three miles north of here . 
You 'd have starved to death if you 'd missed both places " . 
" Then we 're lucky we got here . 
Could you give us a job , Mr. " " Morgan . 
Dan Morgan " . 
He was silent a moment , thinking he could use a man this time of year , and if the girl could cook , it would give him more time in the meadows , but he knew nothing about the couple . 
They might kill him in his sleep , thinking there was money in the house . 
He dismissed the possibility at once . 
The girl 's thin face haunted him . 
It was n't the face of a killer . 
He was n't so sure about the boy . 
He had n't shaved for several weeks , his sparse beard giving his face a pathetic , woebegone expression . 
There was more to this than Jones had told him . 
They were running from something . 
He 'd be an idiot to let them stay he thought , but he could n't send them on , either . 
" I could use some help " , Morgan said finally , " but I can n't afford to pay you anything . 
I guess you 'd better go on in the morning " . 
" We 'll work for our keep " , the boy said eagerly . 
" I 've been mucking in a mine in the San Juan , but I used to work on a ranch . 
Sharon , she 's cooked in a restaurant . 
We 'll work hard , Mr. Morgan " . 
" I 'll see " , Morgan said . 
" Right now you need a meal and a bath . 
Your wife 's in terrible shape " . 
" I know " , Jones said dejectedly . 
Morgan filled the fire box with wood again , then started supper and set the table . 
When the meal was ready , he told Jones to wash up , and going into the front room , woke the girl . 
He said , " I 've got some supper ready " . 
She rubbed her eyes and stretched , then sat up , her hands going to her hair . 
" I 'm a mess " , she said , and suddenly she was alarmed . 
" Who are you ? ? 
How did we get here " ? ? 
" I 'm Dan Morgan . 
This is the Rafter A[fj] . 
You fell down in front of the house , and I carried you in . 
I gave you a drink and then you went to sleep " . 
" Oh " . 
She stared at him , her eyes wide as she thought about what he had said ; ; then she murmured : " You 're very kind , Mr. Morgan . 
Do you take in all the strays who come by " ? ? 
" I do n't have many strays coming to my front door " , he said . 
" Think you can walk to the table " ? ? 
" Of course " . 
She got to her feet , staggered , and almost fell . 
He caught her by an arm and helped her into the kitchen . 
She sat down at the table , shaking her head . 
" I 'm sorry , Mr. Morgan . 
I 'm usually a very strong woman , but I 'm awfully tired " . 
" And hungry " , he said . 
" Start in . 
It 's not much of a meal , but it 's what I eat " . 
" Not much of a meal " ? ? 
The girl cried . 
" Mr. Morgan , it 's the best-looking food I ever saw " . 
He told himself he had never seen two people eat so much . 
When they were finally satisfied , Jones said , " I think he 's going to give us work " . 
The grateful way she looked at Morgan made him ashamed of himself . 
When he saw the expression in her eyes , he knew he could n't send them on . 
She said , " I guess the Lord looks out for fools , drunkards , and innocents " . 
Morgan laughed . 
" Which are you " ? ? 
" We 're not drunkards " , she said . 
" That 's all I 'm sure of " . 
She helped him with the dishes , then he brought more water in from the spring before it got dark . 
He carried the tub from the back of the house where it hung from a nail in the wall . 
He said : " You 'll feel a lot better after you have a bath . 
Your feet are in bad shape , Mrs. Jones . 
You 'll have to go to town to see the doc " . 
" No , she 'll be all right " , Jones said quickly . 
" I mean , we do n't have any way to get there and we can n't expect you to quit work just to take us to town " . 
" We 'll see " , Morgan said . 
" Could you find me a needle and thread " ? ? 
The girl asked . 
" My dress needs some work on it " . 
He nodded and , going into the bedroom , brought a needle , thread , and scissors . 
He said : " I 'm going to bed " . 
He nodded at the door in front of him . 
" That 's my spare bedroom . 
The bed is n't made , but you 'll find plenty of blankets there " . 
" You 're awfully kind " , the girl said . 
" We 'll pay you back if you 'll let us . 
Some way " . 
" It 's all right " , he said . 
" I get up early . 
You 'd better sleep " . 
Jones followed him into the front room , closing the door behind him . 
He said : " If it 's all right with you , Mr. Morgan , I 'll sleep out here on the couch . 
We have n't slept together since we started . 
I just can n't take any chances on getting her pregnant , and if we were sleeping together " He stopped , embarrassed , and Morgan said , " I understand that , but I do n't savvy why you 'd go off and leave your jobs in the first place " . 
" We got fired " , Jones said . 
" We had to do something " . 
They were a pair of lost , whipped kids , Morgan thought as he went to bed . 
