Miraculously , she found exactly the right statement . 
She began it deliberately , so that none of her words would be lost on him . 
" I want to tell you something Thomas DeMontez Lord . 
I 'm well aware that you 've got a pedigree as long as my leg , and that I do n't amount to anything . 
But " -- " But it do n't matter a-tall " , Lord supplied fondly . 
" To me you 'll always be the girl o ' my dreams , an ' the sweetest flower that grows " . 
Beaming idiotically , he pooched out his lips and attempted to kiss her . 
She yanked away from him furiously . 
" You shut up ! ! 
Shu-tt up-pp ! ! 
I 've got something to say to you , and by God you 're going to listen . 
Do you hear me ? ? 
You 're going to listen " ! ! 
Lord nodded agreeably . 
He said he wanted very much to listen . 
He knew that anything a brainy little lady like her had to say would be plumb important , as well as pleasin ' to the ear , and he did n't want to miss a word of it . 
So would she mind speaking a little louder ? ? 
" I think you stink , Tom Lord ! ! 
I think you 're mean and hateful and stupid , and -- louder " ? ? 
Said Joyce . 
" Uh-huh . 
So I can hear you while I 'm checkin ' the car . 
Looks like we might be in for a speck of trouble " . 
He opened the door and got out . 
He waited at the car side for a moment , looking down at her expectantly . 
" Well ? ? 
Was n't you goin ' to say somethin ' " ? ? 
Then , helpfully , as she merely stared at him in weary silence , " Maybe you could write it down for me , huh ? ? 
Print it in real big letters , an ' I can cipher it out later " . 
" Aah , go on " , she said . 
" Just go the hell on " . 
He grinned , nodded , and walked around to the front of the car . 
Lips pursed mournfully , he stared down at its crazily sagging left side . 
Then he hunkered down on the heels of his handmade boots , peered into the orderly chaos of axle , shock absorber , and spring . 
He went prone on his stomach , the better to pursue his examination . 
After a time , he straightened again , brushing the red Permian dust from his hands , slapping it from his six-dollar levis and his tailored , twenty-five-dollar shirt . 
He wore no gun -- a strange ommission for a peace officer in this country . 
Never , he 'd once told Joyce , had he encountered any man or situation that called for a gun . 
And he really feels that way , she thought . 
That 's really all he 's got , all he is . 
Just a big pile of self-confidence in an almost teensy package . 
If I could make myself feel the same way She studied him hopefully , yearningly ; ; against the limitless background of sky and wasteland it was easy to confirm her analysis . 
Here in the God-forsaken place , the westerly end of nowhere , Tom Lord looked almost insignificant , almost contemptible . 
He was handsome , with his coal-black hair and eyes , his fine-chiseled features . 
But she 'd known plenty of handsomer guys , and , conceding his good looks , what was there left ? ? 
He was n't a big man ; ; rather on the medium side . 
Neither was he very powerful of build . 
He could move very quickly , she knew ( although he seldom found occasion to do so ) , but he was more wiry than truly strong . 
And his relatively small hands and feet gave him an almost delicate appearance . 
Just nothing , she told herself . 
Just so darned sure of himself that he puts the Indian sign on everyone . 
But , by gosh , I want him and I 'm going to have him ! ! 
He caught her eye , came back around the car with the boot-wearer ; ; teetering , half-mincing walk . 
Why did these yokels still wear boots , anyway , when most had scarcely sat a horse in years ? ? 
He slid in at her side , tucked a cigar into his mouth , and politely proffered one to her . 
" Oh , cut it out , Tom " ! ! 
She snapped . 
" Ca n't you stop that stupid clowning for even a minute " ? ? 
" This ai n't your brand , maybe " , Lord suggested . 
" Or maybe you just do n't feel like a cigar " ? ? 
" I feel like getting back to town , that 's what I feel like ! ! 
Now , are you going to take me or am I supposed to walk " ? ? 
" Might get there faster walkin ' " , Lord drawled , " seein ' as how I got a busted front spring . 
On the other hand , howsomever , maybe you would n't either . 
I figger it 's probl'y a sixty-five-mile walk , and I c'n maybe get this spring patched up in a couple of hours " . 
" How -- with what ? ? 
There 's nothing out here but rattlesnakes " . 
" Now , ai n't it the truth " ? ? 
Lord laughed with secret amusement . 
" Not a danged thing but rattlesnakes , so I reckon I 'll get the boss rattler to help me " . 
" Tom ! ! 
For God 's sake " ! ! 
" Looky " . 
He pointed , cutting her off . 
" See that wildcat " ? ? 
She saw it then , the distant derrick of the wildcat -- a test well in unexplored country . 
And even with her limited knowledge of such things , she knew that the car could be repaired there ; ; sufficiently , at least , to get them back into town . 
A wildcatter had to be prepared for almost any emergency . 
He had to depend on himself , since he was invariably miles and hours away from others . 
" Well , let 's get going " , she said impatiently . 
" I " -- She broke off , frowning . 
" What did you mean by that rattlesnake gag ? ? 
Getting the boss rattlesnake to help you " ? ? 
" Why , I meant what I said " , Lord declared . 
" What else would I mean , anyways " ? ? 
She looked at him , lips compressed . 
Then , with a shrug of pretended indifference , she took a compact from her purse and went through the motions of fixing her make-up . 
In his mood , it was the best way to handle him ; ; that is , to show no curiosity whatsoever . 
Otherwise , she would be baited into a tantrum -- teased and provoked until she lost control of herself , and thus lost still another battle in the maddening struggle of Tom Lord Vs. Joyce Lakewood . 
The car lurched along at a snail 's crawl , the left-front mudguard banging and scraping against the tire , occasionally scraping against the road itself . 
Lord whistled tunelessly as he fought the steering wheel . 
He seemed very pleased with himself , as though some intricate scheme was working out exactly as he had planned . 
Along with this self-satisfaction , however , Joyce sensed a growing tension . 
It poured out of him like an electric current , a feeling that the muscles and nerves of his fine-drawn body were coiling for action , and that that action would be all that he anticipated . 
Joyce had seen him like this once before -- more than once , actually , but on one particularly memorable occasion . 
That was the day that he had practically mopped up the main street of Big Sands with Aaron McBride , field boss for the Highlands Oil & Gas Company . 
Tom had been laying for Aaron McBride for a long time , just waiting to catch him out of line . 
McBride gave him his opportunity when he showed up in town with a pistol on his hip . 
He had a legitimate reason for wearing it . 
It was payday for Highlands , and he was packing a lot of money back into the oil fields . 
Moreover , as long as the weapon was carried openly , the sheriff 's office had made no previous issue of it . 
" So what 's this all about " ? ? 
He demanded , when Lord confronted him . 
I 'm not the only man in town with a gun , or the only one without a permit " . 
It was the wrong thing to say . 
By failing to do as he was told instantly -- to take out a permit or return the gun to his car -- he had played into Lord 's hands . 
The trouble was that he had virtually had to protest . 
The deputy had forced him to by his manner of accosting him . 
So , " How about it " ? ? 
He said . 
" Why single me out on this permit deal " ? ? 
" Well , I 'll tell you about that " , Lord told him . 
" We aim t ' be see-lective , y'know ? ? 
Do n't like to bother no one unless we have to , which I figger we do , in your case . 
Figger we got to be plumb careful with any of you Highlands big shots " . 
McBride reddened . 
He himself had heard that there was gangster money in the company , but that had nothing to do with him . 
He was an honest man doing a hard job , and the implication that he was anything else was unbearable . 
" Look , Lord " , he said hoarsely . 
" I know you 've got a grudge against me , and maybe I ca n't blame you . 
You think that Highlands swindled you and I helped 'em do it . 
But you 're all wrong , man ! ! 
I 'm no lawyer . 
I just do what I 'm told , and " -- " uh-huh . 
An ' that could mean trouble with a fella that 's workin ' for crooks . 
So you get rid of that pistol right now , Mis-ter McBride . 
You do that or take you out a permit right now " . 
McBride could n't do either , of course . 
Not immediately , as the deputy demanded . 
Not without a face-saving respite of at least a few minutes . 
To do so would make his job well-nigh impossible . 
Oil-field workers were a rough-tough lot . 
How could he exert authority over them -- make them toe the line , as he had to -- if he knuckled under to this small-town clown ? ? 
" I 'll get around to it a little later " , he mumbled desperately . 
" Just as soon as I go to the bank , and " -- " huh-uh . 
Now , Mis-ter McBride " , said Lord , and he laid a firmly restraining hand on the field boss 's arm . 
It was strictly the deputy 's game , but McBride had gone too far to throw in . 
Now , he could only play the last card in what was probably the world 's coldest deck . 
He flung off Lord 's hand and attempted to push past him , inadvertently shoving him into a storefront . 
It was practically the last move that McBride made of his own volition . 
Lord slugged him in the stomach , so hard that the organ almost pressed against his spine . 
Then , as he doubled , gasping , vomiting the breakfast he had so lately eaten , Lord straightened him with an uppercut . 
A rabbit punch redoubled him . 
And then there was a numbing blow to the heart , and another gut-flattening blow to the stomach But he could n't keep up with them . 
No more could he defend himself against them . 
He seemed to be fighting not one man but a dozen . 
And he could no longer think of face-saving , of honor , but only of escape . 
Why , he 's going to kill me , he thought wildly . 
I meant him no harm . 
I 've given willful hurt to no man . 
I was just doing my job , just following orders , and for that he 's going to kill me . 
Beat me to death in front of a hundred people . 
Somehow more terrible than the certainty that he was about to die was the knowledge that Lord would probably not suffer for it : the murder would go unpunished . 
He , McBride , would be cited as in the wrong , and he , Lord , would go scot-free , an officer who had only done his duty , though perhaps too energetically . 
McBride staggered into the street , flopped sprawling in the stinging dust . 
Fear-maddened , fleeing the lengthening shadow of death , he scrambled to his feet again . 
He could n't see ; ; he was long past the point of coherent thinking . 
Dimly , he heard laughter , hoots of derision , but he could not read the racket properly . 
He could not grasp that Lord had withdrawn from the fight minutes ago , and that his leaden arms were flailing at nothing but the air . 
He hated them too much to understand -- the people of this isolated law-unto-itself world that was Lord 's world . 
This , he was sure , was the way they would act ; ; laughing at a dying man , laughing as a man was beaten to death . 
And nothing would be done about it . 
Nothing unless Donna ! ! 
Donna , his young wife , the girl who was both daughter and wife to him . 
Donna was like he was . 
She lived by the rules , never compromising , never blinded or diverted by circumstance . 
And Donna would -- When he regained consciousness he was in Lord 's house , in the office of Doctor Lord , the deputy 's deceased father . 
