While no larger than Dutch Springs , this mining supply town had the appearance of being far busier and more prosperous . 
Men crowded the streets and freight rigs and teams were moving about . 
Although they were forced to maintain a sharper watch , this activity enabled them to ride in and rack their broncs without any particular attention being paid them . 
" Gyp 'll be holdin ' forth in some bar if he 's here at all " , Cobb declared , glancing along the street as they stretched their legs . 
There were no less than six or seven saloons in Ganado , not counting the lower class dives , all vying for the trade of celebrating miners and teamsters . 
Pat only nodded . 
" Take one side of the street , and I 'll take the other " , he proposed . 
" If you spot Carmer give a yell before you move in " . 
Cobb 's assent was tight . 
" You do the same . 
It 's all I ask , Stevens " . 
Separating , they took different sides of the main drag and systematically combed the bars . 
Russ visited two places without result and his blood pressure was down to zero . 
Suddenly it seemed to him insane that they might hope to locate Gyp Carmer so casually , even were he to prove the thief . 
He tramped out of the Miners Rest with his hopes plummeting , and headed doggedly for the Palace Saloon , the last place of any consequence on this side of the street . 
The Palace was an elaborate establishment , built practically on stilts in front , with long flights of wooden steps running up to the porch . 
Behind its ornate facade the notorious dive clung like a bird 's nest to the rocky ribs of the canyonside . 
Russ ran up the steps quickly to the plank porch . 
The front windows of the place were long and narrow , reaching nearly to the floor and affording an unusually good view of the interior . 
Heading for the batwings , Cobb glanced perfunctorily through the nearest window , and suddenly dodged aside . 
Nerves tight as a bowstring , he paused to gather his wits . 
Against all expectation , Carmer was inside , clearly enjoying himself to the hilt and already so tipsy that it seemed unlikely he was bothering to note anything or anyone about him . 
Fierce anger surged through Russ . 
He fought down the impulse to rush in and collar the vicious puncher on the spot . 
Reaching the porch rail beyond view of the bar windows , he feverishly scanned the busy street below . 
Stevens was nowhere in sight . 
Muffling an exclamation , Russ sprang to the nearest steps and ran down . 
As luck had it , he had not gone twenty feet in the street before Pat appeared . 
" What luck , Cobb " ? ? 
He said swiftly . 
Russ pointed upward . 
" He 's there " , he got out tersely , curbing his rising excitement . 
Hitching his cartridge belt around , Pat glanced upward briefly at the Palace and started that way with Cobb at his side . 
Climbing the steps steadily , they reached the top and headed for the door . 
Pat pushed through first . 
Forced behind him momentarily , Russ followed at once and halted two steps inside . 
His eyes widened . 
While five minutes ago the place had presented a scene of easy revelry , with Gyp Carmer a prominent figure , it was now as somnolent and dull as the day before payday . 
Carmer himself was nowhere to be seen . 
A man knocked the roulette ball about idly in its track , and another dozed at one of the card tables . 
Two men murmured with their heads together at the end of the bar , while the sleek-headed bartender absently polished a glass . 
Looking the setup over , Stevens started coolly for the rear of the place . 
" Where yuh goin ' " ? ? 
It was the barkeep . 
Halting , Pat turned to survey him deliberately . 
He did not reply , going on toward the back . 
Less assured than the tall , wide-shouldered man in the lead , Cobb followed alertly , a hand on his gun butt . 
The bartender measured this situation with heavy eyes and decided he wanted no part of it . 
He said no more . 
A hall opened in back of the bar , running toward an ell . 
Pat moved into it . 
Small rooms , probably for cards , opened off on either side . 
All the doors were open at this hour except one , and it was toward this that Stevens made his way with Russ close at his shoulder . 
The door was locked . 
A single kick made it spring open , shuddering . 
Pat saw Gyp Carmer staggering forward , a half-filled bottle upraised as if to strike . 
Russ sprang through to bat it nimbly aside . 
With a bellow Carmer lunged at him . 
But he was more than half-drunk , and his faculties were dulled . 
Cobb unleashed a single powerful jab that sent Gyp reeling wildly and crashing down with a whining groan . 
He started to struggle up , heaving desperately . 
Russ gave him a brutal thrust that tumbled him over flat on his stomach . 
Kneeling , Cobb planted a sturdy knee in the small of his back , holding him pinned . 
" Okay , Stevens . 
I 've drawn his fangs " , he snapped . 
" Go through his pockets , will you ? ? 
If we have to we 'll take him apart and see what he 's made of " ! ! 
Complying methodically , Pat pulled pocket after pocket inside out without finding a thing . 
Cobb watched this with hunted eyes , his desperate hope waning by the moment . 
Stevens was grunting over the last empty pocket when Russ abruptly rose and lunged toward Carmer 's hat , which had tumbled half-a-dozen feet away when he first fell . 
Cobb got it . 
Straightening up , his eyes ablaze , he held out the battered Stetson . 
" Look at this " ! ! 
Inside the crown , stuffed behind the stained sweatband , could be seen thin , crumpled wads of currency . 
Carmer 's ingenious cache for his loot had been found . 
" By golly , Stevens ! ! 
You were right " , Russ exclaimed , tearing the loose bills out of Carmer 's hat . 
" That is , if we can be sure this is Colcord 's money " -- Pat grunted . 
" Where else would he get it ? ? 
Count what you 've got there , Cobb . 
We can soon tell " . 
Russ ran through the bills and named an amount it was highly unlikely any cowpuncher would come by honestly . 
Pat nodded . 
" It 's within a hundred of what Crip had " , he declared . 
" We know Penny spent some -- and Carmer must have dropped a few dollars getting that load on " . 
Handing the money over , Russ wiped his hands on his pants-legs as if ridding himself of something unclean . 
His glance at Gyp Carmer was disdainful . 
" Shall we get out of here " ? ? 
Leaving the card room , they moved back through the Palace the way they had come . 
Glowering looks met them in the bar , but there was no attempt to halt them . 
Pausing in the outside door to glance behind him , Pat looked his unspoken warning and stepped out . 
He and Cobb clattered down the high steps to the street . 
Neither spoke till they reached their horses . 
Pat paused there , looking across at the young fellow . 
It 'll be a pleasure for you to return this money to Colcord and tell him about it , Russ " . 
He started to return it . 
To his faint surprise Russ held up his hand . 
" Not me " , he ruled decidedly . 
I 've had enough . 
It was you that tracked it down anyway , Stevens " , he pursued strictly . 
" I 'll shove along home " . 
" Whatever you say " . 
Pat swung into the saddle , yet still he delayed , his brows puckered . 
" You owe it to Penny to give her a chance to explain that she was defending you , really " , he observed mildly . 
" Old Crip was n't " , retorted Cobb tartly . 
" He 'll know when you tell him . 
But I want this to sink in awhile . 
Then maybe next time he wo n't be so quick on the trigger " . 
" Pat had never pretended to give advice in such affairs . 
" You 're the doctor " , he returned with a smile . 
" But I still think Penny 's an awful nice girl , Russ " -- " You do n't have to tell me " , flashed Cobb . 
Giving the other a dark look , he hauled his bronc around and trotted down off the street . 
Pat let him go , following more leisurely . 
At the first restaurant he sensibly pulled up to go in for his dinner , and as a consequence did not see Cobb strike the open range at the mouth of the canyon and head straight across the swells for Antler . 
The truth was , the puncher was both bewildered and dismayed by his own mixed luck . 
" Penny 's always glad to see me over there " , he mused bleakly . 
Yet had he not visited the girl at Saw Buck he would never have been involved in this latest tangle . 
Over and above that , however , was his growing suspicion of Chuck Stober 's part in recent events . 
" Gyp Carmer could n't have known about Colcord 's money unless he was told -- and who else would have told him " ? ? 
He asked himself . 
" It 's the second time War Ax hands made a play for that money . 
How much of an accident could that be " ? ? 
Nearing home , he jerked to attention at the distant crack of a gun . 
In town no one paid much attention to an occasional shot ; ; but on the range gunfire had a meaning . 
Hauling up , Russ listened carefully . 
Two minutes later it came again -- a double explosion , followed by a third , sounding more distant . 
As near as Cobb could determine the shots came from the direction of the Antler ranch house . 
He tightened up in a twinkling . 
So far as he knew , only his father could be there . 
What did it mean ? ? 
Clapping spurs to the bronc he set off at a sharp canter , with growing alarm . 
His first glimpse of the ranch house across the brushy swells told him nothing . 
Still a quarter-mile away , the fresh clap of guns only served to increase his speed . 
Setting a course straight for the house , he was covering ground fast when an angry bee buzzed past close to his face . 
When it was followed by a second , whining even closer , Cobb swerved sharply aside into a depression . 
He knew now what he was up against . 
Whoever was out there hiding in the brushy cover was besieging the Antler house and , having spotted his approach , was determined to drive him off before he could get into the fight . 
Cursing himself for having ridden out the last few days without a rifle in his saddle boot , Russ drew his Colt and examined it briefly . 
If he wondered whether the attackers would allow him to pull away unmolested , he had his answer a moment later . 
" Over this way ! ! 
He ai n't gone far " ! ! 
A harsh cry floated to him across the brush . 
A carbine cracked more loudly , and a slug clipped fragments from the brush off at one side . 
The would-be assassin had his position figured pretty close . 
Dismounting , Russ looked about hastily . 
Toward the west this depression led toward a draw . 
Leading his pony , he hurried that way , not remounting till he was well below the level of the surrounding range . 
Swinging up then , and bending forward over the horn , he urged his mount down the meandering draw . 
He had not covered a hundred yards before a gun crashed from somewhere behind . 
He had been sighted , and his attacker pumping shot after shot . 
A shot or two went wild before Cobb felt something tug at his foot . 
A slug had torn half of his stirrup-guard away . 
A second twitched his shirtsleeve , and he felt a brief burn on his upper arm . 
Another snarled close overhead . 
" Jumping Jerusalem ! ! 
Let 's get out of here " ! ! 
At the first shot Russ had hurled his mount to the left toward the side of the winding draw . 
The long minute before he reached effective cover seemed endless . 
Sweeping a look around , he saw that he was safe for the moment . 
He heard cries from behind him , but he could make out no words . 
He dashed madly for the next elbow turn in the draw , and made it . 
Recklessly hurling the bronc sidewise into an intersecting draw , he plunged forward with undiminished speed . 
Gradually the wash climbed upward , forcing him toward open range . 
Yet he must chance it . 
He clambered out of the dwindling wash , the loose dirt flying behind him , and flashed a look about . 
