The Brannon outfit -- known as the Slash-B because of its brand -- reached Hondo Creek before sundown . 
The herd was watered and then thrown onto a broad grass flat which was to be the first night 's bedground . 
Two of the new hands , a Mexican named Jose Amado and a kid known only as Laredo , were picked for the first trick of riding night herd . 
The rest of the crew offsaddled their mounts and turned them into the remuda . 
They got tin cups of coffee from the big pot on the coosie 's fire , rolled and lighted brown-paper cigarettes , lounged about . 
There was some idle talk , a listless discussion of this or that small happening during the day 's drive . 
But they deliberately avoided the one subject that had them all curious : the failure of the boss 's wife and son to join the outfit . 
It especially bothered the older hands . 
The cook , Mateo Garcia , had arrived there long before the herd . 
He 'd started a fire and put coffee on , and now was busy at the work board of his chuck wagon . 
He was readying a batch of sourdough biscuits for the Dutch oven . 
Supper would be ready within the hour . 
The Maguire family was setting up a separate camp nearby . 
Billie had unhitched the mules from both Tom Brannon 's and his father 's wagon . 
Hank had gathered wood for a cookfire , and his wife was busy at it now . 
Conchita kept an eye on the twins and little Elena , trying to keep them from falling into the creek by which they persisted in playing . 
Conchita nagged at the younger children , attempting without success to keep her thoughts off Tom Brannon . 
Tom Brannon had caught up with the outfit shortly after the Maguires joined it , which had been at midday . 
He 'd come alone , without his wife and child . 
He 'd been in an angry mood : Conchita had thought his face almost ugly with the anger in him . 
She wondered what had taken place in town , between him and his wife . 
She wished that she could talk to her mother about it . 
Not that her mother knew what had happened , but they could speculate upon it . 
But her mother would rebuke her if she mentioned it , and say that it was none of her concern . 
" Pat , get out of that creek ! ! 
You too , Sean ! ! 
Elena , you 'll get mud all over your dress " ! ! 
Even as she called to the children , Conchita let her gaze seek Tom Brannon . 
Tomas , she called him -- as the Mexican hands did . 
He was in earnest conversation with her father and the old vaquero , Luis Hernandez . 
Whatever they are talking about ? ? 
Conchita wondered . 
It bothered her that she probably would never know . 
Certainly , she would n't dare ask her father afterward . 
He would tell her not to pry into grownups ' affairs -- as though she were a little kid like Elena ! ! 
At the moment , the three men were not saying much of anything . 
They were sitting on their heels , rider-fashion , over by the still empty calf wagon . 
Brannon was hunkered down with his broad back to the left rear wheel , with the other two facing him . 
He held a cigarette in his right hand . 
It was burning away , forgotten . 
His face was clouded with unhappiness . 
He 'd told Hank Maguire and Luis Hernandez about his wife 's refusal to come with him and about what he now intended to do . 
They were considering it gravely , neither seeming to like what he planned . 
Finally Hernandez said , " I could offer you advice , Tomas , but you would n't heed it " . 
" Let 's hear it , anyway " . 
" Wait a little while . 
Let Senora Brannon live in her father 's house for a time . 
Give her time to miss you . 
Maybe she will then come to you . 
After all , you want the senora as much as you want the boy . 
You need her even more than you need him " . 
" She wo n't change her mind " , Brannon said . 
" John Clayton will see to that " . 
" But after a time away from you . 
" " A year , Luis ? ? 
Five ? ? 
Ten ? ? 
How long should I wait " ? ? 
" Maybe in a year , Tomas . 
" " In a year she 'll like living in Clayton 's house too much to come back to me " , Brannon said flatly . 
" And the boy will be too much under his influence by then . 
I 've got to take Danny away from Clayton before I lose him altogether . 
Hell , in a year or five or ten , the boy will have forgotten me -- his own father " ! ! 
" But to take him and leave his mother behind is not good " . 
" In my place , you 'd follow such advice as you give me " ? ? 
Hernandez looked suddenly uncertain . 
" That I ca n't answer , for I ca n't imagine something like this happening to me . 
Maybe I should withdraw my advice -- no " ? ? 
Brannon looked at Hank Maguire . 
" And you ? ? 
What would you do in my place " ? ? 
Hank shook his head . 
" I do n't know , Tom . 
Like Luis , I ca n't see something like this happening to me . 
With Maria and me , there 's never any problem . 
Where I go , she goes -- and the kids with us . 
You 're going to need your woman . 
And the boy will need his mother . 
If you take the one , you 'd better take both " . 
Brannon shook his head . 
" I wo n't force Beth to come against her will . 
But I 'm going to have my son " . 
They were silent for a little while , each looking glum . 
Finally Luis Hernandez said , " What must be , must be . 
I am with you , of course , Tomas " . 
And Hank Maguire added , " So am I , Tom " . 
" All right " , Brannon said , rising . 
" We 'll ride out as soon as we 've had chuck " . 
Brannon timed it so that they rode in an hour after nightfall . 
They had for cover both darkness and a summer storm . 
During much of the fifteen-mile ride they had watched a lurid display of lightning in the sky to the east . 
Later , they 'd heard the rumble of thunder and then , just outside Rockfork , they ran into rain . 
Those who had slickers donned them . 
The others put on old coats or ducking jackets , whichever they carried behind their saddle cantles . 
There were seven of them , enough for a show of strength -- to run a bluff . 
It was to be nothing more than that . 
There was to be no gunplay . 
If the bluff failed and they ran into trouble , Brannon had told the others , they would withdraw -- and he would come after his son another time . 
He did n't want to put himself outside the law . 
With him were Hank Maguire , Luis Hernandez , and Luis 's son Pedro . 
The Ramirez brothers were also along . 
The seventh man was Red Hogan , a wiry little puncher with a wild streak and a liking for hell-raising . 
They were all good men . 
It was dark early , because of the storm . 
Also because of the storm , the streets of Rockfork were deserted . 
Lighted windows glowed jewel-bright through the downpour . 
They reined in before the town marshal 's office , a box-sized building on Main Street . 
A lamp burned inside , but Brannon , peering through the window , saw that the office was empty . 
He 'd hoped to catch Jesse Macklin there . 
" Probably just stepped out " , he said . 
" Maybe to have supper . 
Red , come along . 
The rest of you wait here " . 
With Red Hogan , he rode to the Welcome Cafe . 
Hogan got down from the saddle and had a look inside . 
" Not there " , he said , getting back onto his horse . 
" Maybe he 's at the hotel " . 
They rode to the Rockfork House , a little farther along the opposite side of the street . 
They reined in there , Brannon remaining in the saddle while Hogan went to look for Jesse Macklin in the hotel dining room . 
Brannon had no slicker . 
He 'd put on his old brown corduroy coat and it was already soaked . 
But he felt no physical discomfort . 
He was only vaguely aware of the sluicing rain . 
He hardly noticed the blue-green flashes of lightning and the hard claps of thunder . 
Hogan reappeared , stopped on the hotel porch , lifted a hand in signal . 
Brannon dismounted and climbed the steps . 
" He 's finished eating " , Hogan said . 
" Sitting with a cup of coffee now . 
It should n't be long " . 
It seemed long , at least to Tom Brannon . 
He and Hogan waited by the door , one to either side . 
Macklin was the third man to come out , and he came unhurriedly . 
He was puffing on a cigar , and he was turning up his coat collar against the rain . 
It was not until he moved across the porch that he became aware of them , and then it was too late . 
They closed in fast , kept him from reaching inside his coat for his gun . 
" Just come along " , Brannon told him . 
" Do n't start anything you ca n't finish " . 
" Now , listen " -- Macklin began . 
" We 'll talk over at your office " . 
" Brannon , I warn you " ! ! 
" Let 's go , Marshal " , Brannon said , and took him by the arm . 
Hogan gripped the lawman 's other arm . 
They escorted him down from the porch and through the rain to his office . 
The other five Slash-B men followed them inside , crowding the small room . 
His face was stiff with anger when they let go of his arms . 
He looked at each of them in turn , Brannon last of all . 
" I 'll remember you " , he said . 
" Every last one of you . 
As for you , Brannon " -- " Put your gun on the desk , Marshal " . 
" Now , hold on , damn it ; ; I wo n't " -- Red Hogan 's patience ran out . 
He lifted the skirt of Macklin 's coat , took his gun from its holster , tossed it onto the desk . 
" Too much fooling around " , he said . 
" Do n't press your luck , badge-toter " . 
Brannon said , " Now the key to the lockup , Marshal " . 
" Key " ? ? 
Macklin said . 
" What for " ? ? 
" Ca n't you guess " ? ? 
Brannon said . 
" We 're putting you where you wo n't come to harm . 
Come on -- the key . 
Get it out " ! ! 
" Damned if I will . 
Brannon , you 've assaulted a law officer and " -- They moved in on him , crowded him from all sides . 
No man laid a hand on him , but the threat of violence was there . 
His face took on a sudden pallor , became beaded with sweat , and he seemed to have trouble with his breathing . 
He held out a moment longer , then his nerve gave under the pressure . 
He swore , and said , " All right . 
It 's here in my pocket " . 
" Get it out " , Brannon ordered . 
Then , as Macklin obeyed : " Now let 's go out back " . 
Resignedly , Macklin turned to the back door . 
They followed him into the rain and across to the squat stone building fifty feet to the rear . 
The door of the lockup was of oak planks and banded with strap iron . 
It was secured by an oversized padlock . 
Macklin balked again , not wanting to unlock and open the door . 
They crowded him in that threatening way once more , forced him to give in . 
Once the door was open , they crowded him inside the dark building . 
He was uttering threats in a low but savage voice when they closed and padlocked the door . 
They returned to the street , mounted their horses , rode through the rain to the big house on Houston Street . 
Its windows glowed with lamplight . 
Deputy Marshal Luke Harper still stood guard on the veranda , a forlorn , scarecrowish figure in the murky dark . 
He came to the edge of the veranda , peered down at them with his hand on his gun . 
" Do n't try it " , Brannon told him , dismounting and starting up the steps with his men following . 
" Do n't get yourself killed for something that does n't concern you " . 
He strode past the now frightened man , entered the house . 
Miguel and Arturo Ramirez remained on the veranda to keep Harper from interfering . 
The others followed Brannon inside . 
They trailed him across the wide hallway to the parlor , four roughly garbed and tough-looking men who probably had never before ventured into such a house . 
They brought to it all the odors that clung to men like themselves , that of their own sweat , of campfire smoke , of horses and cattle . 
They tracked mud on the oaken floor , on the carpet . 
Their presence fouled the elegance of that room . 
And their arrival caught John Clayton and Charles Ansley off guard . 
