She was carrying a quirt , and she started to raise it , then let it fall again and dangle from her wrist . 
" I saw your fire " , she said , speaking slowly , making an effort to control her anger . 
" You could burn down this whole mountainside with a fire that size . 
It would n't matter to a fool like you . 
It would to me " . 
" All right " , Wilson said quickly . 
" The fire 's too big . 
And I appreciate the advice " . 
He was losing patience again . 
An hour before , with the children asleep and nothing but the strange darkness , he would have appreciated company . 
She had helped him change his mind . 
" I 'm not advising you " , she said . 
" I 'm telling you . 
That fire 's too big . 
Let it burn down . 
And make sure it 's out when you leave in the morning " . 
He was taken aback . 
It took him a long time to compose himself . 
" There 's some mistake " , he said finally . 
" You 're right about the fire . 
It 's bigger than it has to be , though I do n't see where it 's doing any harm . 
But you 're wrong about the rest of it . 
I 'm not leaving in the morning . 
Why should I ? ? 
I own the place " . 
She showed her surprise by tightening the reins and moving the gelding around so that she could get a better look at his face . 
It did n't seem to tell her anything . 
She glanced around the clearing , taking in the wagon and the load of supplies and trappings scattered over the ground , the two kids , the whiteface bull that was chewing its cud just within the far reaches of the firelight . 
She studied it for a long time . 
Then she turned back to Wilson and smiled , and he was n't quite sure what she meant by it . 
" You own this place " ? ? 
She said , and her tone had softened until it was almost friendly . 
" You bought it " ? ? 
" From a man in St. Louis " , Wilson said . 
" Jake Carwood . 
Maybe you know him " . 
The girl laughed . 
" I know him . 
I ought to . 
My father ran him off here six years ago " . 
Wilson did n't say anything . 
He stood watching the girl , wondering what was coming next . 
She had picked up the quirt and was twirling it around her wrist and smiling at him . 
" Carwood did n't tell you that " , she said . 
" No " , Wilson said . 
" But it 's understandable . 
It 's not the kind of thing that a man would be proud of . 
And it does n't make any difference . 
He sold me a clear title . 
I have it with me , right here . 
If you want to see " -- " Never mind " , she said sternly . 
" It would n't matter to my father , and not to me . 
I meant what I said about that fire . 
Be sure it 's out when you leave . 
That 's all . 
I 'll let you go back to doing the dishes now " . 
It was meant to insult him , and did n't quite succeed . 
He took the reins just below the bit and held them firmly , and it was his turn to smile now . 
" I do n't mind washing dishes now and then " , he said pleasantly . 
" It does n't hurt . 
It might hurt you , though . 
Somebody might mistake you for a woman " . 
He meant to say more , but he never got the chance . 
She was quick . 
She brought the quirt down , slashing it across his cheek , and he tried to step back . 
She swung the quirt again , and this time he caught her wrist and pulled her out of the saddle . 
She came down against him , and he tried to break her fall . 
He grabbed her by the shoulders and went down on one knee , taking her weight so that some of the wind was driven out of him . 
It made him a little sick , and he let go of her . 
He got up slowly , and she was already on her feet , and he stood facing her . 
He wiped the blood from his cheek . 
" I ought to " -- he said . 
He was shaking with anger , his breath coming in long , painful gasps . 
" That quirt -- I ought to use it on you , where it would do the most good . 
If you were a man " -- " She is n't , mister " . 
The voice came from behind him , and Wilson turned . 
The fire had gone down , and the man was only a shadow against the trees . 
But a moment later he brought his horse forward into the light , and Wilson had a good look at him . 
He was tall and dark-skinned , a half-breed , Wilson thought . 
And he was handsome , despite the long thin scar that slanted across his cheek . 
" She 's not a man , mister " , he said . 
" I am . 
If you 've got any ideas " . 
He raised the Winchester and pointed it at Wilson 's chest . 
" Put the rifle down , Joseph " , the girl said . 
She seemed irritated . 
" I thought I told you to stay home " . 
The half-breed eased the Winchester down and rested it across his lap . 
The scar looked pure white in the half-darkness ; ; his eyes were black and deep-set , and expressionless . 
" You should n't be riding up here after dark , Judith " , he said quietly . 
" I can take care of this . 
It 's no job for you " . 
The girl tapped the quirt impatiently against her knee and glared at him . 
He took it without flinching . 
" I said go home , Joseph . 
You 've got no business up here " . 
The half-breed did n't answer this time . 
But the scar seemed to pull hard at the corner of his mouth , and his eyes were hurt and angry . 
It made Wilson wonder . 
He watched the half-breed as he turned silently . 
They could hear the pony 's feet on the dry leaves for a while , then the sound faded out . 
Wilson brushed the dust from his coat . 
" Who was that " ? ? 
He asked . 
" Your personal guard ? ? 
You 're pretty hard on him " . 
" He works for my father " , the girl said , and then seemed to change her mind . 
" He 's a friend . 
His name 's Joseph Sanchez . 
Is there anything else you want to know " ? ? 
" Not now " , Wilson said . 
" I guess I 'll find out soon enough . 
You 've got blood on your cheek . 
Not yours . 
Mine . 
It must have got there when you fell against me " . 
She wiped it off with the sleeve of her coat . 
" I 'll bet that 's as close as you 've been to a man since you were a baby " , Wilson said . 
He saw her hand start to work down the leather thong toward the handle of the quirt , and he grabbed her wrist . 
" Oh , no " , he said , and he was without humor now . 
" I 've had enough of that . 
I 've had enough of you . 
I do n't know what goes on around here , and I do n't care . 
I do n't know what makes you think you can get away with this kind of business , and I do n't care about that , either . 
You took me by surprise . 
But I 'll know how to handle you next time " . 
She brought up her free hand to hit him , but this time he was quicker . 
He side-stepped her blow and she fell , stumbling against the gelding . 
She finally regained her balance and got up in the saddle . 
Her hat had come off and fallen behind her shoulders , held by the string , and he could see her face more clearly than he had at any time before . 
He had forgotten that she was so pretty . 
But her prettiness was what he had noticed first , and all the other things had come afterward : cruelty , meanness , self-will . 
He had known women like that , one woman in particular . 
And one had been too many . 
He watched the girl until she had gone into the trees , and waited until he could n't hear the sound of her horse any longer , then went up to where the children were sleeping . 
They were n't sleeping , of course , but they thought they were doing him a favor by pretending . 
He had n't shown up too well in their eyes , letting himself be browbeaten by a woman . 
They expected greater things from him , regardless of how trying the circumstances , and they were disappointed . 
And determined not to show it . 
They lay a little too stiffly , with their eyes straining to stay closed . 
" Go to sleep " , he said . 
" Both of you . 
There 's better things to do than listen to something like that . 
I 'll be down at the creek finishing the dishes , if you want me " . 
He found the pan where he had dropped it and carried it back down to the stream . 
The coyote was calling again , and he hoped that this time there would be no other sounds to interrupt it . 
Not tonight , at any rate . 
He had a feeling that the girl meant trouble . 
If she did , he could stand it better in the light . 
He scrubbed absent-mindedly at the pans and reflected on how things had turned out . 
That afternoon when they had pulled up in front of the broken-down ranch house , his hopes had been high . 
Already some of the pain had gone from Amelia 's death . 
Not all of it . 
There would still be plenty of moments of regret and sadness and guilty relief . 
But they were starting a new life . 
And they had almost everything they needed : land , a house , two whiteface bulls , three horses . 
The land was n't all Wilson had expected of it . 
Six hundred and forty acres , the old man back in St. Louis had said ; ; good grass , good water . 
Well , the grass was there , though in some places the ground was too steep for a cow to get to it . 
The water was there , so much of it that it spread all through the dead orchard . 
And there was a house ; ; livable perhaps , but badly in need of repairs . 
In the last analysis , though , Wilson had little cause to complain . 
The place had been cheap -- just the little he had left after Amelia 's burial -- and it would serve its purpose . 
There was only one place where Jake Carwood 's description had gone badly awry : the peace and quiet . 
It had n't started out that way . 
And he had a feeling -- thanks to the girl -- that things would get worse before they got better . 
2 They had the house cleaned up by noon , and Wilson sent the boy out to the meadow to bring in the horses . 
He stood on the porch and watched him struggling with the heavy harness , and finally went over to help him . 
Kathy was already in the wagon . 
They were going to town , and they were both excited . 
Wilson backed the team into the traces , and wished they were n't going to town at all . 
He had an uneasy feeling about it . 
That girl last night , what was her name ? ? 
Judith Pierce . 
It was the only thing about her that was the least bit hard to remember . 
He finished with the team and filled his pipe and stood looking about him . 
He had spent two hours riding around the ranch that morning , and in broad daylight it was even less inviting than Judith Pierce had made it seem . 
There was brush , and stands of pine that no grass could grow under , and places so steep that cattle would n't stop to graze . 
But there was water . 
There was an artificial lake just out of sight in the first stand of trees , fed by a half dozen springs that popped out of the ground above the hillside orchard . 
Yes , there was plenty of water , too much , and that was probably the trouble . 
There were tracks of cattle all over his six hundred and forty acres . 
The first part of the road was steep , but it leveled off after the second bend and curled gradually into the valley . 
It was hotter once they reached the flat , and drier , but the grass was better . 
A warm breeze played across it , moving it like waves . 
A red-tailed hawk flew in behind them and stayed there , watching for any snakes or rabbits that they might stir up from the side of the road . 
It took them an hour before they came to the first houses of Kelseyville . 
The town was about what Wilson expected : one main street with its rows of false-fronted buildings , a water tower , a few warehouses , a single hotel ; ; all dusty and sunbaked . 
The place was quiet . 
