There was a crowd in the stands for a change and the sun was hot . 
The new Riverside pitcher turned out to have an overhand fast ball that took a hop . 
For a few innings the Anniston team could n't figure him out . 
Then , in the fifth , Anniston 's kid catcher caught onto a curve and smacked the ball into left center field . 
Eddie Lee , Riverside 's redheaded playing manager , ran after the ball but it rolled past him . 
Phil Rossoff cut over to center from left field to get the relay . 
Eddie caught up with the ball near the fence and threw it to Phil . 
" Third ! ! 
Third base " ! ! 
Eddie shouted . 
Phil spun around and made an accurate throw into Mike Deegan 's hands on third base . 
Mike caught the ball just as the catcher slid into the bag . 
But the Anniston boy had begun his slide too late . 
He came into the bag with his body and Mike Deegan brought the ball down full in his face . 
" You bastard " ! ! 
The Anniston catcher screamed . 
He jumped to his feet and started to throw punches . 
Mike Deegan tossed his glove away and began to swing at the catcher . 
This brought in everybody from both sides , while the spectators stood up and added to the uproar . 
The fighters were separated in a few minutes . 
The game was resumed . 
But Mike Deegan was boiling mad now . 
When the inning was over he cursed the Anniston catcher all the way into the dugout . 
Phil Rossoff , coming in from left field , stopped at the water fountain for a drink . 
Mike Deegan was standing beside it , facing the field . 
He was eyeing the Anniston catcher warming up his pitcher before the inning began . 
" Keep your eyes open , sonny " ! ! 
Mike yelled to the catcher . 
" You 're in for trouble " . 
The Anniston catcher did not reply with words . 
He simply turned to Mike and smiled . 
This so infuriated Deegan that he spun around and said : " I 'll get that little bastard . 
So help me God , I 'll get him " . 
Phil Rossoff said : " Why do n't you leave him alone " ? ? 
" Mind your own goddamn business " , Mike Deegan said . 
Phil shrugged . 
He stepped into the dugout , wondering why Deegan was always looking for trouble . 
Maybe the answer was in his eyes . 
When Deegan smiled his eyes never fit in with his lips . 
In the last of the sixth inning Mike Deegan got up to bat and hit a fast ball over the left fielder 's head . 
By the time the fielder got his hands on the ball Deegan was rounding third base and heading for home . 
The left fielder threw and it was a good one . 
But Mike had no chance of being tagged . 
The Anniston catcher was straddling home plate . 
All Deegan had to do was slide , fall away , but instead , he rammed into the catcher . 
Both fell heavily to the ground . 
Only Mike got to his feet . 
He went back to touch home plate , turned and walked to the dugout without looking back . 
The Anniston players and their manager ran out on the field . 
They poured water over their catcher 's face . 
He did not move . 
Then the manager called for a doctor . 
The Riverside physician came down to look over the injured ballplayer . 
Then , quickly , and a little nervously , the doctor ordered a couple of ballplayers to carry the catcher into the dressing room . 
Mike Deegan was sitting on the bench , watching . 
When the ballplayers started to carry the catcher off the field he said : " That ought to teach the sonofabitch " . 
Phil Rossoff , seated next to Deegan , got up and moved to the other end of the bench . 
The Anniston manager was coming over to the Riverside dugout . 
He was followed by four of his men . 
It began to look as if something was going to happen . 
Mike sat quietly watching the manager come nearer . 
Eddie Lee moved over to Mike Deegan 's side . 
No one said a word . 
The Anniston manager came right up to the dugout in front of Mike . 
His face was flushed . 
" Deegan " , the manager said , his voice pitched low , quivering . 
" That was a rotten thing to do " . 
" For God 's sake " , Mike said , waving the manager away . 
" Stop it , will you ? ? 
Tell your guys not to block the plate " . 
" You did n't have to ram him " . 
" That 's what you say " . 
The Anniston manager looked at Eddie Lee . 
It was a cold and calculated look . 
He turned and went back across the field to his dugout . 
He called in the pitcher who had been pitching , and a big , heavy , powerfully built right hander moved out to the mound for Anniston . 
The game started again and in the eighth inning Mike Deegan came up to bat . 
Everyone in the ball park seemed to be standing and shouting . 
The first ball the hefty pitcher threw came in for Mike 's head . 
Deegan fell into the dirt , the ball going over him . 
He arose slowly and brushed himself off . 
He got back into the batter 's box and on the next pitch dropped into the dirt again . 
" Hit the bum " ! ! 
Somebody yelled from the Anniston bench . 
In the Riverside dugout Frankie Ricco , shortstop , whispered into Phil 's ear : " There 's gon na be a fight " . 
" Look at those bastards " ! ! 
Charlie Haydon , a pitcher , said . 
" They 're looking for trouble " . 
Mike was slow getting into the box this time . 
When he finally did he had to duck his head quickly away as the pitch came in . 
" Listen " ! ! 
He shouted to the pitcher . 
" One more and I 'm coming out there " ! ! 
" I 'll be waiting " ! ! 
The pitcher yelled back . 
Mike Deegan pounded the rubber plate with the end of his bat . 
He stood flat-footed in the box , but not very close to the plate now . 
The pitcher wound up and the ball came in straight for Mike 's head . 
Deegan dropped , got up , turned and , holding the bat with both hands up against his chest , began to walk slowly out to the mound . 
The pitcher tossed his glove away and came towards Mike Deegan . 
They were both walking towards each other , unhurried . 
Riverside and Anniston players rushed out on the field . 
In the next moment , it seemed , the infield was crowded with spectators , ballplayers , cops , kids and a dog . 
There was much shouting and screaming . 
Fights sprang up and were quickly squelched . 
Mike and the Anniston pitcher were pulled away before they even came together . 
Phil Rossoff and two other Riverside players did not go out on the field when the fighting started . 
After the game , Phil was taking off his sweatshirt in the dressing room when Mike Deegan came in . 
" It 's a helluva thing " , Mike said , looking at Phil , " when a guy 's own team-mate wo n't come out and help him in a fight " . 
Phil sighed and pulled the wet sweatshirt over his head . 
Frankie Ricco sat down on the bench near Phil . 
The other players were undressing quietly . 
Eddie Lee had not come in yet . 
Mike went over to Phil and stood over him . 
" Why the hell did n't you come out when you saw them gang up on me " ? ? 
" I did n't think it was necessary " . 
" Well ! ! 
Now that 's just fine ! ! 
You did n't think it was necessary " . 
Mike placed both his hands on his hips . 
He pushed his jaw forward . 
" Listen , wise guy , if you think I 'm gon na do all the fighting for this ball club you 're crazy " . 
Mike had a good two inches over Phil and Phil had to look up into Mike 's face . 
" I did n't ask you to fight for the ball club " , Phil said slowly . 
" Nobody else did , either " . 
" You trying to say I started the fight " ? ? 
" I 'm not trying to say anything " . 
Phil turned away and opened his locker , and then he heard Mike Deegan say : " You 're yellow , Rossoff " ! ! 
And Phil banged his locker door shut and spun around . 
But before anything could happen Frankie Ricco was between them and Eddie Lee had come into the dressing room . 
" Phil , come into my office " , Eddie said . 
Phil followed Eddie into the office and shut the door . 
He sat down before Eddie 's desk . 
" I 'm doing you a favor " , Eddie said quickly . 
" You get your unconditional release as of today " . 
Phil 's eyes widened just a trifle . 
" The best thing for you to do " , Eddie said , " is go home . 
You do n't belong in professional baseball " . 
Phil had to clear his throat . 
" Is this because of what happened out there " ? ? 
" No " , Eddie said . 
" But it does confirm what I 've suspected all along " . 
Phil stood up . 
" Listen ! ! 
This is the second time . 
" " Sit down , sit down " , Eddie said . 
" I 'm not saying you 're yellow . 
I am saying you 're not a professional ballplayer " . 
Eddie Lee leaned forward over the desk . 
" Now listen to me , Phil . 
I 'm not steering you wrong . 
You have n't got the heart for baseball " . 
Phil shook his head and Eddie frowned . 
Suddenly his voice grew hard . 
" What the hell do you think baseball is ? ? 
You 're not in the big leagues , but if you ca n't give and take down here what the hell do you think it 'll be like up there " ? ? 
Phil started to say something but Eddie cut him short . 
" Now do n't tell me what a good ball player you are . 
I know you 've got talent . 
But what you have n't got is the heart to back up that talent with . 
The heart , Phil . 
You just have n't got the heart for pro-ball , and that 's it " . 
Dazed , Phil said : " I do n't get it . 
My batting average " Eddie stood up abruptly , then sat down just as abruptly . 
" What difference does your batting average make ? ? 
Or your fielding average . 
Or even the way you run bases . 
I tell you when it 's necessary to hurt in order to win -- you wo n't do it . 
That 's what I mean by no heart for the game . 
Baseball 's no cinch . 
Deegan had no business ramming into that kid out there . 
He did it because he knows for each guy he puts out of commission that 's one less who might take his job away later on . 
What the hell do you think baseball is ? ? 
A sport ? ? 
It 's a way of life , goddamit ! ! 
And you 've got to be ready to cut to ribbons anybody who wants to take your way of life away from you " ! ! 
He 's wrong ! ! 
Phil thought . 
It 's only his opinion . 
There were other clubs in this league . 
He stood up slowly . 
He was a little pale and shaky . 
His lips felt glued together . 
" I think you 're wrong , Eddie " , he said finally . 
Eddie nodded . 
" Okay . 
You 'll get your pay in the morning " . 
Phil turned and left the room , hearing Eddie say : " Someday you 'll see I was right " . 
Phil shut the door behind him . 
Outside in the dressing room , Frankie Ricco sat on the bench dressed in his street clothes . 
" What happened " ? ? 
Frankie asked . 
Phil said : " I got my release " . 
" You crazy " ? ? 
Phil shrugged . 
" What for " ? ? 
Phil sighed . 
Frankie shook his head . 
" I do n't get it " . 
" I do n't know " , Phil said . 
They were silent for a few moments . 
Then Frankie said : " What are you gon na do " ? ? 
Phil started to take his clothes off and Frankie sat down on the bench again . 
Phil took off one shoe and stared at it . 
" Do n't take it like this " , Frankie said . 
" Hell , plenty of guys get let out and come back later . 
The leagues are full of guys like that " . 
Phil was very quiet . 
" What are you gon na do , Phil " ? ? 
Phil did not answer . 
" Why not try another club " ? ? 
Phil looked up . 
What the hell right did Eddie have saying a thing like that ? ? 
" Springfield 's in tomorrow " , Frankie said . 
" Talk to Whitey Jackson " . 
He just did n't know what he was talking about , saying a thing like that . 
" Will you do it , Phil " ? ? 
" Do what " ? ? 
" Ask Whitey for a job " . 
Phil nodded . 
" Sure " , he said . 
" Springfield come in tomorrow " ? ? 
Frankie nodded . 
" I 'll speak to Whitey " . 
" Atta boy " . 
" I 'll talk to him , all right " . 
" Do n't worry " , Frankie said . 
" You 'll get a job there . 
He needs outfielders bad " . 
" I 'm not worried about it " , Phil said . 
" That 's the way to talk . 
What else did Eddie have to say " ? ? 
" Nothing " , Phil said . 
