The Momoyama family had come from Miyagi Prefecture , in the northeast of the main Japanese island of Honshu , where there are still traces of the mysterious Ainu strain . 
The Ainus were a primitive people , already living on the island before the principal ancestors of the Japanese came from Southern Asia . 
Apparently they were of Caucasian blood . 
They had white skins and blue eyes ; ; all their men were bearded , and many of their women were beautiful . 
A pitiful few of them are left now , to subsist mainly on the tourist trade and to sing their ancient tribal chants , which have the same haunting sadness as the laments of the American Indians . 
Most of them have been assimilated , but sometimes a man in Miyagi or Akita prefectures is much more hairy than the average Japanese , and occasionally a girl will be strikingly lovely , her coloring warmed and improved by a little of the tawny honey-in-the-sun tint of the invaders from the South . 
Tommy Momoyama was one of these fortunate occasions . 
She was taller than most Japanese girls , and had the exquisitely willowy form of the Japanese girl who is lucky enough to be tall . 
Her nose was higher of bridge , her complexion so pale as to be quite susceptible to sunburn , and the fish and vegetable diet of her forebears had given her teeth that were white and regular and strong . 
Her mouth , soft and full , was something for any man to dream about . 
She had black eyes , long and intriguingly tilted , and the way she walked was melody . 
She had been in Japan just one week . 
It was an alien land , and she hated it intensely ; ; she was already considering putting in rebellious requests for duty at San Diego , Bremerton , the Great Lakes , Pensacola -- any place the Navy had a hospital -- with a threat to resign her commission if the request were not granted . 
Anywhere would be better than the land of her ancestors . 
There was nothing wrong with her job . 
Tommy had been assigned to the psychopathic ward . 
There were no depressingly serious cases : the ward doctor sometimes teamed up with the chaplain to serve as a marriage counselor -- sometimes the Navy sent people back to the States to preserve a marriage -- but mental health as a rule was very high . 
At present the doctor 's main concern was in seeing to it that Japanese salvage firms were not permitted to operate on the hulks of warships sunk too close inshore , because the work involved setting off nerve-shattering blasts at all hours . 
Tommy was interested in psychiatry , because there was much an understanding nurse could do to help the patients . 
But she suffered in her off-duty hours . 
Such as now , when she sat at a table in the coffee shop at the Officers ' Club , having coffee and a hamburger to sustain her until dinnertime . 
She had changed into a cocktail dress , and the whole evening should have been before her , but already she was beginning to get a tight feeling at the back of her neck . 
This was one of the Navy 's crossroads -- you find them all around the world . 
Ships from the West Coast rotated on six-month tours of duty with the Seventh Fleet , and Yokosuka was the Seventh Fleet 's principal port for maintenance , upkeep and shore liberty . 
Sooner or later , all the gray Navy ships came in here ; ; if Tommy sat long enough , she would be sure to see all the young officers she had met in San Diego and Long Beach . 
And she wanted desperately to see someone she had known back there . 
She felt , rather than saw , the approach of the good-looking young man . 
He came through from the Fleet Bar , which was stag , with the ice cubes tinkling in a glass he carried . 
When he saw Tommy sitting alone , the tinkling sound stopped . 
He was perhaps a trifle tipsy , having been long at sea where drinking is not permitted , and consequently out of practice ; ; he wore a brown tweed sports jacket obviously tailored in Hong Kong , and he was of an age that marked him as a lieutenant . 
Probably off one of the carriers -- an aviator . 
There was a fifty-fifty chance , perhaps , that he would be unmarried , and an even more slender chance that his approach would be different . 
Japan did something to a man -- and it was n't just Japan , either , because the same thing applied anywhere overseas . 
It was as if foreign duty implied and excused license ; ; it intimated that the folks at home would never know about it , and , therefore , why not ? ? 
Then the young man in the brown sports jacket spoke , and it was no different . 
" Harro , girl-san " ! ! 
He said , turning on what was meant to be charm . 
" You catchee boy-furiendo ? ? 
Maybe you likee date with me " ? ? 
" I beg your pardon " ! ! 
Tommy said out of her cold rage . 
" I do n't believe I know you , and I ca n't understand your quaint brand of English -- it was meant to be English , was n't it " ? ? 
The nice-looking young officer fell back on his heels , open-mouthed and blushing . 
At least , he had the decency to blush , she thought . 
" Oh -- I 'm sorry ! ! 
You see , I thought -- I mean I really had no idea " -- " Oh , yes -- you had ideas " ! ! 
Tommy interrupted furiously . 
" All wrong ones " ! ! 
Then she jerked her thumb toward the door in a very American gesture , and dropped into Navy slang . 
" Take off , fly-boy " ! ! 
" Uh -- sorry " ! ! 
He muttered , and took off , obviously feeling like a fool . 
The trouble was that there was no lasting satisfaction in this for Tommy . 
She felt like a fool , too . 
It had n't been this way in college , or in nurses ' training ; ; it was n't this way in the hospital at San Diego . 
Everybody had accepted her for what she was -- a very charming girl . 
Nobody had addressed her in broken English at any of those places , nobody had suggested that she was n't American . 
There are Spanish girls who look like Tommy Momoyama , brunettes with a Moorish hint of the Orient in their faces ; ; there are beauties from the Balkan states who are similarly endowed , and -- back in the blessed United States -- they were regarded simply as pretty women . 
Now , having been sent halfway around the world on a job she had not asked for , Tommy was being humiliated at every turn . 
She looked around , self-consciously . 
Four little Japanese waitresses were murdering the English language at the counter -- Yuki Kobayashi happened to be one of them . 
Everybody but Tommy seemed to think it was charming when they called , " Bifutek-san " ! ! 
For a steak sandwich , or " Kohi Futotsu " ! ! 
For one cup of coffee . 
Two other Japanese girls were sitting at the tables , both quite pretty and well groomed . 
One was with a whitehaired and doting lieutenant commander ; ; the other was with her American husband and their exceptionally appealing children . 
Seeing these did nothing for Tommy 's mood . 
She told herself rebelliously , and with pride , I am an American ! ! 
And so she was , and would remain . 
But she was learning that so long as she was in this country , and wore civilian dress in the Club , there would always be transient young men who would approach her with broken English . 
There had been occasions when some of the more experienced had even addressed her in what might have been perfectly good Japanese . 
Tommy would n't know ; ; after coming to America , her parents had spoken only English . 
One thing was becoming increasingly sure . 
She had been sent to the wrong place for duty . 
There was more to service in the Navy Nurse Corps than the hours in the ward . 
One had to have friends , and a congenial life in after-duty hours . 
Now there was raucous male singing from the Fleet Bar . 
It was terribly off key , and poorly done , and Tommy could never admit to herself that male companionship was a very natural and important thing , but all at once she felt lonesome and put-upon . 
She finished her hamburger and drank her coffee and paid her check ; ; she got out of the coffee shop before the incident could be repeated . 
Eating while angry had given her a slight indigestion . 
Back in her living quarters at the hospital she took bicarbonate of soda , and sulked . 
Then , after a while , she went to her mirror . 
It was all true . 
She certainly looked Japanese , and perhaps she could not really blame the young men . 
And , still , they did not have to be so crude in their approach . 
There was a letter to write to her mother , and she tried to make its tone cheerful . 
She promised that she would soon take a few day 's leave and visit the uncle she had never seen , on the island of Oyajima -- which was not very far from Yokosuka . 
And tomorrow she would take time to shop for the kimono her mother wanted to present to the young wife of a faculty member as a hostess gown . 
Tommy , of course , had never heard of a kotowaza , or Japanese proverb , which says , " Tanin yori miuchi " , and is literally translated as " Relatives are better than strangers " . 
Actually , this is only another way of saying that blood is thicker than water . 
Doc Doolittle 's scheduled appearance at captain 's mast was a very unusual thing , because the discipline dispensed there is ordinarily for the young and immature , and a chief is naturally expected to stay off the report . 
But the beer hall riot in Subic had been unusual , too , and Walt Perry was convinced that Doc had started it through some expert tactics in rabble rousing . 
Just why anybody should wish to start a riot the executive officer did n't know . 
In his opinion , Doc had not grown up . 
The lieutenant was not entirely wrong in the belief . 
There had never been a good reason for Doc Doolittle to grow up . 
He had come into the Navy too young , with the image of the fun-loving Guns Appleby before him . 
The war found him much too early , and its perils -- and especially its awful boredom -- were best forgotten in horseplay and elaborate practical jokes , and even now Doc had never found any stabilizing , sobering influence . 
He remained young at heart , with an overdeveloped sense of humor . 
He wisecracked about the captain 's indoctrination of new men , took great delight in slaughtering cockroaches with ethyl chloride , and gave no thought for tomorrow . 
He was doing thirty years , and the Navy would take care of him . 
The job security enjoyed by Doc Doolittle , and nearly all members of the Armed Forces , is a wonderful thing . 
Actually , all a man in uniform has to do is to get by . 
He may not rise to the heights , but he can get by , and eventually be retired . 
Doc had been under restriction to the ship since the Bustard left Subic . 
This deprived him of liberty in Hong Kong , but he told Boats McCafferty that Hong Kong was a book he had read before , and the Navy would always bring him there again , some day . 
At Yokosuka he was restricted to the confines of the Base because Walt Perry , being thoughtful , knew that Doc might have to draw some medical supplies from the hospital or the Supply Base . 
This gave Doc the whole range of the naval establishment , and suited him quite well . 
There were two things he wanted to do : inspect one of the many caves that had been dug into the hills on the Naval Base , and visit an old shipmate . 
A telephone line had been hooked up to connect the ship with the Base exchange . 
After supper , Doc called Whitey Gresham , who was now a lieutenant and had a family . 
" Well , Doc , you old sonofabitch " ! ! 
Whitey exclaimed , with true affection . 
" Come over and have a drink . 
We live down by the Base commissary . 
Grab a taxi " . 
" I 'll be there , but I 'll walk " , Doc said . 
" I 've got to run an errand on the way . 
See you in about an hour " . 
He threw a smart salute at the gangway , went up the dock , and turned down the wide street in front of the Petty Officers ' Club . 
