She called then to say she had a baby-sitter for that night . 
" Shirley appreciated the chance to make some money . 
Such a nice little thing -- lives right in the building " . 
" That 's swell " , I said sweetly . 
I could get along without that three dollars . 
In some ways it was worth being out the money -- just knowing I was no longer obligated to Nadine ! ! 
It was past midnight and we were in bed when the phone rang . 
I stumbled through the hall , wondering who would be calling at this hour . 
I answered to find Nadine at the other end . 
" You scared me half to death " , I said shakily . 
" What 's wrong " ? ? 
" Janice , nobody answers at the apartment " ! ! 
Her voice came shrill . 
" I 'm absolutely frantic ! ! 
That stupid girl might have gone off and left Francie " ! ! 
" Oh , she would n't do that " , I said . 
" She 's probably fallen asleep and does n't hear the phone . 
But if you 're worried you can go home and check " -- " I ca n't leave the party ! ! 
We 're at Ken Thom 's apartment , and when one couple leaves early everything falls flat ! ! 
Old Mr. Thom is already down on Wally , and we simply ca n't afford to get Ken mad at us " -- I was all set for what came next . 
" Janice , could you possibly go over and make sure everything 's all right ? ? 
I 'll call you there in ten minutes " -- " I ca n't make it in ten minutes " -- Wondering , as I said it , why I should make it at all . 
Why should I go over at midnight to check on Francie , when her parents did n't care enough to leave a party ? ? 
" Fifteen minutes , then ! ! 
Please , Janice . 
I 'll be glad to pay you " -- So sure that money could do anything ! ! 
" All right " , I said . 
I 'd do it . 
Not for the dollar or so Nadine would give me . 
But because there was the chance that something had gone wrong at the apartment , and if I did n't go over , who would ? ? 
Chris was sound asleep , and I did n't see any sense in waking him . 
I dressed in the kitchen , then left a note on the table telling him what had happened . 
I drove off through the cool darkness to Nadine 's apartment and rang the bell , and in a few seconds a young girl opened the door . 
Her face was flushed from sleep . 
" It 's all right " , I said , as she started to look scared . 
" Mrs. Roberts had called , and could n't wake you . 
I just came over to make sure everything was all right " . 
" I 'm -- hard to wake up " , she faltered . 
She did n't look over thirteen . 
And Nadine insisted that her sitters be reliable ! ! 
" I have to get up early for church tomorrow " , she went on . 
" I did n't know it was going to be this late " ! ! 
The phone started ringing . 
" That 's Mrs. Roberts again " , I said . 
" I 'll answer it " . 
I crossed the beautifully furnished living room to the pale yellow phone . 
I told Nadine everything was fine , and that I 'd be getting on home . 
" Janice , would you mind staying " ? ? 
There was a ragged edge to her voice now , as if she 'd been crying . 
" Wally 's drunk -- I 'll get him out of here as soon as I possibly can , but I do n't want Shirley to see him like this . 
You know how gossip of that sort spreads through an apartment building " -- Not a word of thanks for what I 'd already done . 
The receiver clicked in my ear . 
She did n't even give me a chance to refuse . 
Well , there was n't any law that said I had to stay ! ! 
But then I looked at Shirley and thought that I might as well -- the child needed her sleep , and Heaven knew what kind of a mess it would be , with Wally coming home drunk . 
So I told her Mrs. Roberts would pay her in the morning , and she scooted off to her own apartment . 
After I looked in at Francie , I went into the living room and waited . 
I must have dozed off , because I came to with a start at the sound of voices . 
Nadine 's , shrill with anger -- Wally 's loud and thick -- As I went to the door I heard the clock strike two . 
I opened the door , and Wally stumbled in -- fast -- as if Nadine had pushed him . 
I had always thought she was so beautiful . 
But now she looked ugly . 
Her skin was stretched so tight that her cheekbones stuck out , and if looks could kill , Wally would have been dead . 
" Pack your clothes " , she hissed . 
" Pack -- and get out " ! ! 
" You 're crazy " , Wally said thickly . 
He lurched and stumbled to the davenport and sank down on it , and was instantly asleep . 
Nadine strode over to him , and her pointed nails raked across his face . 
I grabbed her arm and she turned on me and for a scared second I thought that maybe Wally was right , and she was crazy . 
" You stay out of this " , she spat at me . 
" He 's ruined us -- do you hear me -- he 's ruined us ! ! 
He insulted Ken Thom " ! ! 
Her eyes were wild . 
" He told Ken to his face that he does n't have what it takes to get a woman ! ! 
And the other people there were listening ! ! 
We 're ruined and he 's going to get out if I have to throw him down the stairs " -- " you 'd better simmer down " , I said nervously . 
I was plenty scared . 
In the state she was in , she could actually kill him ! ! 
" Now you just take it easy , and I 'll make you some tea " -- " Tea , " Nadine screeched . 
" How can you be so damn stupid ? ? 
Wally 's lost his job ! ! 
Ken will never forgive him -- never ! ! 
And we do n't have any money -- we do n't have a dime ! ! 
All we own is Francie 's bedroom set and the televison-record player and we even owe on them . 
And we 'll be poor and have to live in a grubby little house like yours -- and all because of that " -- I clamped my hand over her mouth to stop the stream of filth . 
" Stop that ! ! 
You 'll wake up the whole building . 
Wally ca n't go any place at this hour " -- " Well then , I 'll get out " -- But she looked uncertain . 
She was coming to her senses enough to realize that you do n't go traipsing off anywhere at two in the morning . 
" You go to bed " , I said curtly . 
" In the morning you and Wally can talk things out " -- She collapsed against me , as if everything inside her snapped . 
I got her into bed , and sat with her until she had sobbed herself out . 
It was three o'clock before I figured it was all right to go . 
I left her , a limp bundle of self-pity , shivering with terror because her bubble had burst around her . 
Wally was snoring on the davenport . 
I had done all I could . 
I had done all I was going to do . 
Whether or not Wally lost his job was no concern of mine . 
I drove home , found Chris still asleep . 
I snuggled up close to him -- loving him -- thankful for a man like him . 
Thankful I was n't Nadine . 
I kept on being thankful . 
In the afternoon Nadine and Wally came over with Francie . 
Wally sat in our big chair , his hands between his knees , looking ready to cry . 
" I 'd had all this trouble with the old man , that 's why I drank so much . 
I -- got fired yesterday for not attending to business " -- Old Mr. Thom himself had stopped at the service station for a grease job , Wally confessed , and could n't get one because there were cars on the pits waiting to be repaired . 
Seems that the kid Wally had hired had a repair business of his own going on the side . 
Mr. Thom had gotten Wally on the phone , and fired him . 
" I thought I 'd smooth things over through Ken " , Wally said miserably . 
" But Ken got coy and would n't make any promises . 
And I was plastered and I blew my stack " -- " And told him right to his face he 'd never slept with a woman " ! ! 
I tried to quiet Nadine because the children were there . 
But she was beyond caring what she said . 
" Things may smooth over yet " , Chris said , his nice lean face grave with honest concern . 
But I could n't help thinking that Nadine and Wally were getting just what they deserved . 
Now maybe they 'd realize that life can be tough . 
When A bubble breaks , there 's nothing . 
Little by little , during the week , Chris and I discovered the crazy unbelievable way Nadine and Wally had lived . 
They had not only spent every cent -- they were in debt up to their necks , owing on everything they owned . 
On top of everything else they were two months behind on their apartment rent , and the day Wally received written notice that he was fired , they were evicted . 
Worst of all , Wally had no training for any kind of work . 
He had fallen into a soft job , and now the job was gone and he was stranded . 
Chris fretted . 
" I wish we were in a position to offer a little money to tide them over " . 
I said I wished we were , too . 
It was easy enough to say it , because of course we could n't spare a cent . 
But Chris brightened up like a candle . 
" I 'm glad you feel that way , honey . 
There is one big way we can help them . 
We can let them move in with us " -- Something I had simply never thought of . 
Something so incredible -- I just stared at him . 
It was incredible -- He gave me an embarrassed , pleading look . 
" I know we 'd be pretty crowded . 
But it would only be for a couple of weeks -- until they get straightened out " . 
Straightened out -- They 'd had years of making all that money ! ! 
" I wo n't do it " , I said flatly . 
" Nadine was always too good to live in a little house like this ! ! 
Well , now she can sleep in the street for all I care " ! ! 
" That is n't like you , Janice " , Chris said uncomfortably . 
Then I felt uncomfortable , too . 
I did n't want to be like that , mean and bitter . 
But , darn it all , why should we help a couple of spoiled snobs who had looked down their noses at us ? ? 
But , in the end , we did . 
It just seemed as if there was nothing else to do . 
The finance company took all their furniture -- and they did n't have a cent to their name . 
Then Wally got sick . 
To my way of thinking , he was scared sick . 
His luck had failed him , and it was easier to crawl off into bed than to get out and fight the world . 
Chris made trip after trip in our old car , moving the clothes and dishes and the stock of groceries Nadine had bought on special . 
At least we 'll eat , I thought grimly as I put all the food away . 
While I worked , Nadine sat and cried . 
When she was n't crying , she was in our bedroom fighting with Wally . 
" Virus infection nothing " , she 'd scream at him . 
" You 're too lazy to go out and look for another job . 
You 're just a no-good bum " ! ! 
It was a mess , all right . 
But it could n't go on forever -- A couple of weeks , Chris had said . 
I figured I could stand practically anything for a couple of weeks . 
But the two weeks dragged into three , and they were still with us . 
Nadine 's constant nagging had finally gotten Wally out of bed . 
He set out every morning looking for work , and come home around noon , full of alibis and excuses . 
Wendell Thom had black-balled him . 
Nobody would even take his application . 
" You can get something , " Nadine would snap . 
" You can get a job working in a grocery store , if nothing else " . 
" The high school kids have got everything sewed up " , he said , a whine in his voice . 
" Those damn punks -- taking work away from men who need it " . 
" By fall they 'll be back in school " , I 'd say , trying to sound encouraging . 
But this was only the middle of July . 
And I could n't take six more weeks of this . 
I mentioned it to Chris one stifling hot night , when I had slipped outside for a breath of fresh air . 
