Martin felt it was incredible that the situation had come to exist at all . 
And once begun , had grown to such monstrous proportions . 
The pair of white cotton shorts ruled his life . 
Lying awake at night , he could see them , laid out on the floor of his mind . 
When he rose in the morning , the image was still there . 
He had always been a messy and negligent man . 
In his bachelor days , his bedroom had been strewn with clothes which his mother , or later the hotel maid , generally saw fit to put in order . 
No doubt Dolores resented following in their footsteps . 
But it was fun those first days , kidding about the trail of garments he left littered across the rug . 
There was an assertive maleness in his grinning refusal to pick them up . 
Half slyly he enjoyed seeing her stoop to lift the things . 
He remembered the first time he saw her , standing across the room at a party . 
The smooth curve of her neck , very white against hair which curled against it like petals . 
Her hair was the color of those blooms which in seed catalogues are referred to as " black " , but since no flower is actually without color contain always a hint of grape or purple or blue -- he wanted to draw the broad patina of hair through his fingers , searching it slowly for a trace of veining which might reveal its true shade beneath the darkness . 
So he sought her out , and spoke to her , and thought of his hand in her hair . 
Or against her back , pressed on the column of vertebrae , which held her so magnificently straight and unyielding , until the segments of bone made tiny sharp cracking noises , like the snapped stem of a tulip . 
But , to put it bluntly , nothing snapped . 
Yet that had not seriously troubled him , not then . 
They married . 
More he could take at leisure . 
All Martin thought he needed was time : to what better use could time be put ? ? 
He saw later that they had made their marriage too quickly . 
There was too little occasion beforehand for resistance , the brave strong delights of emotional clash and meeting . 
They had left themselves too much to discover . 
But , at the start , his new life felt invigorating . 
Good . 
It was on the tenth day after the wedding ( how could it have been so soon ? ? 
) that he dropped the shorts on the floor . 
" Now , I 'm not going to pick up those shorts " ! ! 
Martin gave her a teasing pat . 
" I think you 'll get tired of them there " . 
In the morning the shorts were where he had left them . 
He smiled to himself , and decided not to mention them till Dolores did . 
It was almost too easy . 
For he had just remembered : tonight they were having their first guests . 
The shorts would not be on the floor when he came home that evening . 
He was wrong . 
The rest of the bedroom had been groomed to a superhuman neatness , but in the middle of the carpet lay the disheveled shorts . 
They gave the room a strange note of incongruity , like a mole on a beautiful face . 
He saw that Dolores intended to wait until the last minute , thinking he would get nervous . 
Quietly he determined to foil her . 
I can be as stubborn as she can , he thought ; ; my nerves are as strong . 
She 'll rush to the bedroom when the doorbell rings . 
It rang . 
Ten minutes early . 
Martin was standing a few feet from the front door . 
He swung around , eyes toward the bedroom , some fifteen feet away . 
Dolores stood motionless in the doorway . 
He could not cross the living room , brush past her , and bend down to retrieve the shorts . 
Martin turned his back . 
He strode to answer the bell . 
Bill 's hat was deposited in the hall closet . 
With the most casual and relaxed manner in the world , Dolores led Anthea to the bedroom . 
Martin strained his ears . 
At first he could not be sure . 
Then he caught just enough to know that the shorts were still there . 
A glissade of giggles slid over their voices . 
All evening Anthea favored him with odd , coy looks . 
Clearly she had been instructed " not to say a word " . 
For some reason , this ellipsis in the conversation spread until it swallowed up every other topic . 
At last there was a void no one could fill . 
The Brainards went home early . 
Martin realized , later on , that he should have " had it out " with Dolores that night . 
As violently as possible . 
But he was so taken aback , he could not believe any rage of his would make her give in . 
On the contrary , it would only weaken his position if he fumed , while she stayed calm and adamant . 
And if he surrendered after raving at her . 
He shivered . 
Suppose he ran up the white flag altogether ? ? 
At once . 
He considered the sober possibility . 
In his head was the echo of those titters with Anthea . 
There was something about private feminine whisperings which always made him feel scabrous and unclean . 
He remembered his mother gossiping with her neighborhood women friends , lowering her voice to a penetrating hoarseness which might be trusted to carry to the head of the stairs , where he crouched listening . 
He could even recall the last time he sat there . 
She was talking about him that time , because he had done some bad thing , something she disliked , but " Afterwards Martin said he was sorry . 
He apologized so sweetly , I could n't keep being annoyed with him " . 
It was n't even true that he 'd said he was sorry that time ; ; he had in fact said simply that he wished the thing had n't happened , which was as honest as he could put it . 
But his mother told the story over and over , till her " Martin said he was sorry " was as much a part of her as the shape of her thin , pallid ears . 
The battle had to be fought . 
Let the best sex win . 
But his resolution hardly seemed to help . 
If the situation had been bad , it now got worse . 
About this time people began " dropping in " , considering that the newly married had been left alone long enough . 
Angrily Martin wished they had delayed the wedding and gone on a trip -- preferably one that lasted months -- instead of deciding not to postpone the date until he could get away . 
Here they were at the mercy of anyone who chose to come by . 
These stray people nearly always insisted on Dolores showing them around the apartment . 
Of course , the tours of inspection included the ever-present shorts . 
It was curious how the different visitors took this . 
Some tried to ignore the blot on the bedroom 's countenance . 
Others asked . 
Quite a few laughed . 
To them all Dolores told a lighthearted and witty tale . 
" It 's a little contest Martin and I have " , she would begin gaily , carrying the anecdote through a frothy and deceptive course . 
While he waited in the living room . 
Once Martin went along . 
They entered the bedroom , and Dolores said nothing . 
Then one of the guests showed his merriment . 
" You were in a hurry , were n't you " ? ? 
Martin would have liked to break the man 's neck . 
Dolores smiled ; ; she let the interpretation stand . 
Now Martin heard himself give a snort of mock good nature . 
With her eyes Dolores dared him for the truth , ready to begin : It 's a little contest -- Never again did he enter into the ritual of showing the apartment . 
They kept up a rigid pretense of speaking relations . 
But Martin seldom felt the impulse to talk about anything . 
What to talk about ? ? 
Dolores kept picking up any of his clothes ( except the fatal shorts ) which he left about , but he had been robbed of pleasure in scattering his possessions . 
He fell into the habit of putting his clothes in drawers and closets , so his life might impinge as little as possible on hers . 
The shorts alone remained . 
In his moments of worst agony , Martin imagined what his friends were saying . 
The sound of their amazement . 
Bizarre : He could hear the word . 
The most bizarre situation . 
We were up to visit them and He had thought her exactly what he wanted . 
Six weeks of marriage and I 'm using the past tense , he told himself furiously . 
Pursuing his idea , he saw that it would be impossible to leave her now . 
Everyone would know why ; ; he would cut a supremely ridiculous figure . 
He was trapped . 
Day and night Martin could not drag his mind from the dilemma he had made for himself . 
His mind scurried frantically , seeking an exit . 
Alternately he had periods of hostile defeatism in which he determined sullenly , morosely , to live out his life in this fashion . 
Nothing would change , nothing would ever change . 
When the solution finally came to him , one night while he was in bed , he was so shaken by its simplicity that he could only wonder why it had not occurred to him before . 
In a frenzy of excitement , he considered his plan . 
Beside his shorts , he would place something of hers . 
Instantaneously he would have won an immeasurable moral victory , for if she picked up , say , a pair of her panties , she might just as well lift his shorts lying alongside -- the expenditure of energy was almost the same . 
He felt that it would be a particular humiliation to Dolores to pick up her own underwear which he had laid on the floor . 
Furthermore , he could go on repeating the maneuver endlessly : every time he went in the bedroom , he could drop a slip or a brassiere , or maybe a girdle , next to his shorts . 
Sooner or later , Dolores would crack . 
On the other hand , if she did n't remove her own things , it would be difficult to explain to the parade of guests which traversed the apartment . 
Martin guessed that Dolores would not be so eager to tell the next installment of her story . 
The tale , he thought , would become less gay . 
She had used his rumpled shorts as the very image of his childishness , his lack of control , his general male looseness , while she remained cool , airy , and untouched , the charming teacher who disciplined an unruly body . 
To have her underclothes linked with his on the floor would draw her visibly into a struggle both bitter and absurd . 
Something in the back of his mind was aware that the magnificence of the plan lay in his faith , that the idea would work because he believed in it , since his courage and virility were involved , because it was truly his . 
The knowledge kept him from analyzing his scheme to death , and took him through the last hours of that night in a peace of exalted fanaticism . 
The next morning , while Dolores was out of the room , he went to her bureau drawer , took out a pair of nylon lace pants , and tenderly dropped them next to his shorts . 
He sat down on the bed . 
In a surprisingly short time , Dolores appeared . 
To his delight , her eyes focused at once upon the two garments . 
Slowly and deliberately she reached down and touched the lace with her fingers , then hesitated for about a second . 
Ah , he thought , she 's going through the chain of reasoning which says she might really just as well pick up my shorts too . 
He saw that in a moment she had grasped all the implications of a plot which had been weeks in occurring to him . 
Extending her fingers another inch , she caught up the shorts , and swiftly left the room . 
She did not look at him , but he noticed that her face was flushed and her eyes unsteady . 
They breakfasted together , but Martin did not refer to his triumph , and Dolores found a great deal to do in the kitchen , bobbing up and down from the table so that talk was impossible . 
Well , Martin thought , That 'll save . 
He left for work in high spirits . 
As he relaxed that day , Martin realized how tense he had been these past weeks . 
He found that he no longer hated Dolores ( he knew how much he had hated her ) , and he was surprised at a resurgence of an affectionate feeling . 
