Rachel steered me along toward a school for young boys beginning to study the Torah . 
Bits of trash lay in the roadway . 
The air smelled warmish and foul . 
A young man appeared out of a side alley and walked toward us with quick strides . 
He wore a long double-breasted coat of a heavy material , dark trousers , and black boots with buckles . 
His black hat with its wide brim , high crown , and fur trim rode high . 
With his head erect , he approached , not glancing at us , and passed by with his clear eyes raised and fixed straight ahead . 
He had a pinkish-white complexion , a small straight nose , a short black beard , and tightly curled paot . 
I was suddenly conscious of my bare arms . 
The girls in the market place wore long-sleeved dresses and covered their legs with cloth stockings . 
I turned and watched him stride down the center of the road . 
His hands were swinging at his sides , and he passed through the dingy market place with his back straight and , pivoting on his heel , he entered an old stone building . 
Rachel had seen me watching the young man . 
She smiled . 
" When your mother was here he must have been a young boy . 
Like the ones you will see now " . 
I swallowed hard and looked down at my feet plodding along beside Rachel . 
She led me into a twisting side alley . 
The dirty , discolored buildings looked boarded up , and their few windows stood high above our heads . 
Rachel said that schools and synagogues occupied most of the buildings . 
We entered one where the front door stood ajar and climbed a flight of steep steps to the main floor . 
An old man with a white beard and dressed in a long shabby coat , baggy trousers , and a black skullcap greeted us . 
Rachel talked to him . 
He nodded , clasping and unclasping his hands over his paunch , and flicked glances at me . 
I thought he would ask us to leave because Rachel and I were bare-armed , but he looked down into his beard and preceded us down the corridor . 
His toes pointed out toward the walls . 
He stopped in front of a door , placed a finger on his lips , and , still peering down into his beard , pushed open the door to a classroom . 
We stepped inside . 
He left us . 
Little boys crowded together on long wooden benches , and in the center of the room sat the teacher . 
His black beard dripped down over the front of his coat . 
One white hand poised a stick above his desk . 
He turned his surly , half-closed eyes toward us , stared for a second , then shouted in Yiddish , " One , two , three " ! ! 
Rapping the stick against the desk . 
The little boys shrilled out a Yiddish translation or interpretation of the Five Books of Moses , which they had previously chanted in Hebrew . 
They chanted a fixed tune in time to the report of the stick . 
Each boy opened his small mouth wide and rocked back and forth on the bench in the way his grandfather and great-grandfather had studied and prayed in the ghettos of Europe . 
The boys were tiny . 
They had large bright eyes , the small upturned noses of all babies everywhere , and hair cropped short except for the long ringlets of paot framing their little white faces . 
They bent over yellowed prayerbooks and looked up only to watch the teacher . 
Since they did not glance curiously at us once , I guessed that there was a penalty for distraction . 
The guttural language from the ghetto stopped . 
The teacher plunged the children into a new portion , this time in Hebrew , rapping the stick incessantly . 
One boy who rocked back and forth over his worn book had bright red hair and freckles . 
His tightly curled paot hung down to his narrow shoulders . 
In the center of his brilliant curls sat a small black skullcap . 
His head barely rose above the table . 
I stared at him for a long time . 
He did not return my interest . 
My eyes traveled over the bare walls and up to the one partially open window high above the little figures and back to the boys . 
Some of them ignored the texts and had apparently memorized the words long ago . 
They singsonged the portion at the teacher , who accompanied them in an off-key baritone and spurred them on with the stick . 
The tapping defined the rhythm and kept the boys awake . 
I could not keep my eyes away from the boy with the red hair . 
His body pitched back and forth on the bench . 
His front teeth were missing . 
I shuddered and backed out of the room . 
Rachel followed , looked at me , and clucked with her tongue . 
We walked down the cool hall silently . 
From behind us came the rapping of the stick and the high-pitched voices of the boys who would grow to devote their lives to rigid study and prayer . 
I said , " How long do they keep that up " ? ? 
" All day " , she said . 
" Except for Shabbat , when they are praying all day " . 
I rubbed my hands together . 
They had turned numb and prickly in the classroom . 
The old man in the baggy clothes waited at the foot of the steps . 
He glanced down into his beard and muttered something in Yiddish . 
Rachel said , " He asks for money " . 
She passed by him . 
I reached into the pocket of my skirt , fingered ten pruta , and dropped the coin . 
Then I picked it up again and handed it to the old man . 
He thanked me . 
I did n't look at him . 
I grinned at Rachel . 
" Does this bother you " ? ? 
I said . 
She smiled to herself . 
" Most of our Sabras think it 's horrible . 
When we were fighting , a few of our orthodox people were lying down in the roads so we could not pass . 
They said that we must not fight but wait for the Messiah " . 
I was amazed . 
You had to have convictions to lie down in the road in all those clothes and appear as though you might wish to turn yourself out of your own home . 
You had to be stupid or crazy or immortal . 
And I was n't . 
I was American . 
You had to know , also , that you were going to fail . 
All of it might have been heroic , but they had done it in the wrong place . 
I resented them . 
Rachel faced me . 
Her bright eyes were twinkling . 
She said , " Sometimes I think they are keeping religion for us while we play around . 
Your mother hated this way of life . 
She wished to change much for the children here " . 
I said quietly , respectfully , " What did she do here ? ? 
In this section " ? ? 
Rachel clicked her tongue behind her teeth . 
" Here , nothing . 
But when she saw the children you have just visited , she wanted to take them away and put them out in the country , in the kibbutzim . 
She loved the children . 
She was a strange woman , your mother . 
When she loved , it was with a passion that drove her along and carried along with her those things she loved . 
Nothing was too impossible for her to do when she wanted . 
She stayed here to work for Aliah . 
For many immigrants , for many children , the first thing they knew of Israel and freedom was your mother . 
Sometimes it was dangerous for her " . 
Rachel grinned slyly . 
" But she loved danger . 
She took it with her wherever she went ; ; she chose it . 
And I think she sought out danger as much as she sought out helping other people . 
She was most strange woman . 
Ready to follow her impulse . 
It was an impulse when she was here in Me'a She'arim -- I was with her -- that led her to stay in Israel . 
Your mother wanted to bring children to Israel so that they could leave their ghettos . 
Here they did not need to be in ghettos . 
If she could not take the children out of this section , at least she could take other children out of their countries and put them on the farms . 
She set out to make sure that no Jewish child anyplace in the world had to live in a place such as this " . 
I said quietly , gaining nerve , ready to ask any question at all , no matter how intimate , ready to be rebuffed , " Then why did she leave Israel ? ? 
I 'd like to know that very much " . 
Rachel clasped her hands together and slowed her pace . 
The soles of her sandals reported sharply on the cobblestones . 
She pursed her lips , then clamped them together so tightly that I thought she was angry with me . 
But she sighed and her face relaxed . 
" Trouble came into her life . 
She had good friends here , people who liked her . 
Who loved her . 
But she had to go out and hurt herself . 
There was a man here in town . 
He helped her meet people so she could go out and do the work she wanted . 
She worked very hard . 
There was a refugee who was able to come here because of her . 
He came with his son . 
At first I thought they were relatives of your mother , but it was not so . 
This refugee was a middle-aged man , a big , handsome man with a strut to his walk as I have never before seen . 
He had the black numerals on his arm , so he had been branded in a concentration camp . 
Yet he walked like a young man . 
Often he was terribly despondent and talked to no one . 
Then he would walk off for a few days alone in the direction of Europe . 
All his family was dead , except for his son . 
Your mother would always retrieve him when he wandered off , and she would send him home to his son . 
He loved the son and was always glad to be sent back to him . 
Then his son did something " -- Rachel threw up her hands -- " I do n't know what , but something , to an official here -- it was during the Mandate -- and the son was imprisoned . 
A few hours after the son was arrested , your mother was informed . 
She ran from a little group of us . 
We were sitting together , talking . 
She went to the father and found he had hanged himself " . 
Rachel paused . 
It was silent in the stone alley . 
Then she continued with energy , " I myself did not see her until a week after she had run off to find the father . 
No one saw her except the man Reuveni " . 
" Yes " , I said . 
" I know him " . 
Rachel gave me a direct , bright-eyed look . 
She said , " Reuveni wanted your mother to give up her deep interest in this refugee . 
He said she would only hurt herself . 
He complained to me once that I must talk to her . 
When I did , she shrugged her shoulders and said that Reuveni wanted her to marry him . 
I asked her if she would , and she said she would not . 
He had known when he first helped her to meet the right people and work with them that she did not intend to marry him . 
Anyway , I did not see her until two weeks after the refugee hanged himself . 
She came to me one day . 
She was pale and skinny ; ; she was terribly alone . 
And she said that after this man had been dead for a week she had gone to Reuveni and accepted his proposal . 
He shouted at her and told her he loved her and could n't understand why she had upset herself . 
But now he was happy she would let him straighten out her life and take care of her . 
He would never let her harm herself again . 
For one whole week he never let her stay alone . 
She let him lead her around . 
He took her to a doctor , for she was run down , nervous , did not care where she was . 
Reuveni took her with him wherever he went . 
He did not let her talk to people ; ; he did not let her choose her own food . 
She was limp and beaten from her loss ; ; she did not care . 
