" I had a rather small place of my own . 
A nice bachelor apartment in a place called the Lancaster Arms " . 
" Uhhu " , she said , hardly listening as she studied her left eyelid . 
" And then I had another place farther downtown I used as a studio " . 
" Uhhu " . 
" I 'm not a man who has many close intimate friends , Carla " , he said , wanting her to know all about him . 
" Oh , I 'd drink with newspaper people . 
I think I was what you might call a convivial man , and yet it was when I was alone in my studio , doing my work , that I really felt alive . 
But I think a man needs at least one intimate friend to communicate with " . 
Pausing , he waited for her to turn , to ask a question . 
She showed no interest at all in the life he had led back home , and it hurt him a little . 
" Well , what about you , Carla " ? ? 
" Me " ? ? 
She asked , turning slowly . 
" What about me " ? ? 
" Did you make friends easily " ? ? 
" Umm , uhhu " . 
" Somehow I imagine that as you grew up you were alone a lot . 
How about it " ? ? 
" I guess so " , she said taking a Kleenex from her purse . 
When she had wiped some of the lipstick from her mouth , she stared solemnly at her image in the mirror . 
" Are your people still alive " ? ? 
He asked , trying to touch a part of her life Alberto had n't discussed ; ; so he could have something of her for himself . 
" You talk so well , Carla " , he went on . 
" You seem to have read so much , you have a natural gift for words " , he added , trying to flatter her vanity . 
" You must have been good at history at school . 
Where did you go to school " ? ? 
" What is this " ? ? 
She asked , turning suddenly . 
" Do n't you know all about me by this time ? ? 
My name 's Carla Caneli . 
This is my town . 
I sleep with you . 
You know something more about me every day , do n't you ? ? 
Would you be happier if I made up some stories about my life , told you some lies ? ? 
Why are you trying to worry me " ? ? 
" I 'm not trying to worry you " . 
" Well , all right then " . 
The cleansing tissues she had been using had been falling on the floor , and he got up and picked up one , then another , hoping she would notice what he was doing . 
At home he had been a clean orderly man , and now he had to hide his annoyance . 
Was she just naturally sloppy about everything but her physical appearance ? ? 
He wondered . 
Would he have to clean up after her every day , clean the kitchen , the bathroom , and get down on his knees and scrub the kitchen floor , then hang up her dresses , pick up her stockings , make the bed while she lay around ? ? 
He straightened up , ready to vent his exasperation , then grew afraid . 
If he dwelt on the indignities he suffered he would lose all respect for her , and without the respect he might lose his view of her , too . 
" What 's the matter " ? ? 
She asked suddenly . 
" Nothing . 
Nothing at all " , he said quietly . 
" Let 's go out " . 
" Are those the only shoes you have , Sam " ? ? 
" What 's the matter with them " ? ? 
" The heavy thick soles . 
Look at them " . 
" They 're an expensive English shoe for walking around a lot . 
I like them " . 
" Sam , no one around here wears such heavy soles . 
Ca n't you get another pair " ? ? 
" Maybe I could " , he said , surprised that she could turn from herself and notice anything about him . 
" I 'll get an elegant pair of thin-soled Italian shoes tomorrow , Carla " . 
" And I do n't know why you want to go on wearing that outfit " , she said , making a face . 
" What 's the matter with it " ? ? 
He had put on the gray jacket and the dark-gray slacks and the fawn-colored shirt he had worn that first night in Rome when he had encountered her on the street . 
" Oh , Sam . 
You look like a tweedy Englishman . 
Ca n't you wear something else and look a little more as though you belonged " ? ? 
" I do n't mind at all " , he said , delighted with her attention . 
Changing his clothes , he put on his dark-blue flannel suit , and laid away the gray jacket with the feeling that he might be putting it aside for good . 
But it was a hopeful sign , he told himself . 
She no longer wanted anything about him to remind her of the circumstances of their meeting that first night in Parioli . 
That day they loafed around , just getting the feel of the city . 
They looked at the ruins of the old Roman wall on the lower Via Veneto , then they went to the Farnese Gardens . 
She had some amusing scandal about the Farneses in the old days . 
Then they took a taxi to Trastevere . 
" There 's a church you should see " , she said . 
And when they stood by the fountain in the piazza looking at Santa Maria he had to keep a straight face , not letting on he had been there with Alberto . 
He let her tell him all about the church . 
Then they had dinner . 
All evening she was eloquent and pleased with herself . 
When they got home at midnight she was tired out . 
And in the morning when he woke up at ten the church bells were ringing . 
He had never heard so many bells , and as he lay there listening , he thought of her scolding him for his remarks when he had looked up at the obelisk and the church at the top of the Spanish Steps . 
It was a good thing that she clung to her religion , he thought . 
She might like to take him to St. Peter 's . 
" Carla , wake up " , he said shaking her . 
" It 's ten o'clock . 
Are n't you going out to mass ? ? 
You could take me to St. Peter 's " . 
" Uhhu " , she muttered . 
" Come on , you 'll be late " . 
" I think I 'll sleep in this morning " , she said drowsily , and as she snuggled against him , he wondered if she ever went to church . 
Why did he want her to go to church ? ? 
He wondered Probably because it was a place where she might get a feeling of certainty and security . 
It would be good for her . 
It was too bad he had no feeling himself for church . 
Not his poor mother 's fault . 
She would have been better off if she had stuck to her Bible . 
As for himself , he just did n't have the temperament for it . 
From the time he had been at college he had achieved a certain tranquility and composure by accepting the fact that there were certain things he could never know . 
Then he thought of those Old Testament figures on the ceiling of the Sistine Chapel . 
Just figures out of a tribal folklore . 
Could he honestly believe it would be good for Carla to have those old prophets gripping her imagination now ? ? 
Being a woman though , she would take only what she needed from church . 
It was too bad he was n't a Catholic himself . 
Or a Protestant , or one of those amusing dogmatic atheists , or a strict orthodox Communist . 
What was the matter with him that they all wearied him ? ? 
It was the times , he was sure . 
All the ideologies changing from day to day , right under his eyes , so how could a man look to any one of them for an enlargement of his freedom ? ? 
It was all too wearying . 
Look somewhere else . 
But where ? ? 
Just the same , he thought , pondering over it , it would be a good thing for a girl like Carla if she got up and went to church . 
A half hour later he got her up to go out for breakfast so the Ferraros , hearing them hurrying down the stairs , would think they were going to a late mass . 
It seemed to him that if the Ferraros felt sure of them , could place them , it would help him to feel more sure of himself with Carla . 
" Since we 're having coffee with them this afternoon " , he said , " I think I 'll ask the daughter if we can pay her to come in every day to clean for us " . 
And he waited for her to say , " Oh , no , I can do it , Sam . 
There 's so little to do " . 
" Why not " ? ? 
She said . 
" I 'm not good at that kind of thing " . 
" This afternoon let 's take an air with them . 
Let 's be fine superior people of great dignity " , he said as if he were joking . 
" If you find it necessary , Sam , go ahead " , she said , turning on the stair . 
" I am what I am . 
I ca n't help it " . 
Her words remained with him , worrying him for hours . 
He did n't know how she would behave with other people . 
When they walked into the Ferraro apartment , the old lady , bowing and smiling , said softly . 
" Ciao , " and put out her hand . 
Her little brown face wrinkled up , her brown eyes gleamed , and with her little gestures she said all the courteous things . 
Agnese , smiling too , said , " 'ello " , and then more slowly , " I am happy " . 
And they sat down and began their little coffee party . 
The Ferraros offered them biscuits with the coffee . 
Acting only as interpreter Carla , her hands folded on her lap , was utterly impersonal . 
She would turn to them , then turn to him , then turn again . 
Watching her , he felt like a spectator at a tennis game , with the ball being bounced back and forth . 
Signora Ferraro , bobbing her head encouragingly , asked Sam about Canada , having a special interest . 
Carla translated . 
The old woman had a nephew from North Italy , a poor boy from a lumber mill who had got tired of the seasonal unemployment , and who had migrated to Canada to work on the railway . 
For a year the boy had lived in the bush in a boxcar . 
Did many of Sam 's countrymen live in boxcars in the bush ? ? 
Had Sam ever lived in a boxcar ? ? 
She wanted to know . 
Regretfully Sam explained that he had no experience with boxcars . 
Just the same , the old woman said , she would write to her nephew in his boxcar and tell him she had met a nice man from his adopted country . 
And Sam thanked her , and hoped he might meet her nephew back home , and asked her if she had any further news of the Pope . 
A very great Pope , this one , the old woman explained , her black eyes sparkling . 
An intellectual . 
But very mystical too . 
It was said that he had had a vision . 
Just as thousands that day in Portugal had seen the sun dancing in the sky , he had seen the same thing later in his own garden , and she turned to Agnese for confirmation . 
Agnese had been sitting quietly , listening with the serenity of the unaware . 
Now a little flush came on her pale homely face and enchantment in her eyes . 
The Holy Father would die soon , she said to Carla , so she could translate for Sam , although he had a brilliant doctor , a man who did not need the assistance of those doctors offered by the great rulers of the world . 
Yes , the Pope could die and quickly be made a saint . 
No , he was indeed a saint now . 
Nodding approvingly and swelling with importance , the old lady whispered confidentially . 
There was a certain discontent among the cardinals . 
The Pope , in the splendor of his great intellect , had neglected them a little . 
There would be changes made , and Signor Raymond should understand that when the Pope died it was like the end of a regime in Rome . 
Jobs would be lost and new faces would become prominent . 
Did Signor Raymond understand ? ? 
Indeed he did , Sam said solemnly , trying to get Carla 's eye . 
Surely she could see that these women were her Italians , too , he thought . 
Devout , orthodox and plain like a family she might meet in Brooklyn or Malta or Ireland . 
But Carla 's eyes were on Agnese whose glowing face and softening eyes gave her a look of warmth and happiness . 
And Carla , watching in wonder , turned to Sam . 
" It means so much to her . 
It 's like a flame , I guess " , she said in a dreamy tone . 
