I knew it as surely as everybody in Westfield -- that Lucille was a husband stealer . 
You ca n't keep that kind of information quiet in a town of only 4000-plus . 
And I 've been told that just about every town , no matter what its size , has its Lucille Warren . 
Just as it has its Susan Dolan , though nobody 'd ever bothered to tell me that . 
Susan Dolan , that 's me . 
They even talked about Lucille down at the Young Christians ' League where I spent a lot of time in Bible classes and helping out with the office work for our foreign mission . 
I never heard my folks talk about her , though . 
They were good-living religious people , and I can truthfully say I never heard them spread any gossip about anybody . 
Even if they ever did say anything about people like Lucille Warren , I know they would n't have dreamed of saying it in front of me . 
My folks and my faith protected me from things like that . 
And so I was really upset the first time I discovered that my boy friend Johnnie was seeing Mrs. Warren . 
I asked him about it one night while we were sitting in his truck . 
I asked him if it was true . 
He gave me a straight , honest answer . 
" Look , Sue baby " , he 'd said . 
Much as I love you -- well , a guy 's a guy and Lucille 's willing to -- to come across . 
Honest , kitten , that 's all it is -- I do n't even like Lucille much " . 
I guess it was at that moment that I realized what I was up against in the person of Lucille Warren . 
But it did n't seem fair . 
My love for Johnnie was young and clean -- how could I possibly compete with a woman like that , who did n't hesitate to use her sex . 
Johnnie was a trucker with a small lumber outfit in a town about twenty miles away , and he was also pretty good at anything in the carpentry line . 
It was a vivid , sharp February morning that Johnnie first made his appearance in my back yard , bringing some stuff Dad had ordered . 
I was n't in the habit of batting my eyes at delivery men , but the moment I saw Johnnie , I knew he was different . 
He was n't only different -- he was it . 
He had an easy masculine grace about him , the kind that kids do n't have , but that I had sometimes admired in other older men . 
His smile was quick , and his eyes held some promised secret that made my knees go limp . 
The most unbelievable thing about the chance meeting was that he seemed interested in me , too . 
I could hardly believe such good luck was mine . 
And now Lucille Warren had gotten a look at him . 
I guess she was between affairs or something , but anyway , she had set her sights on Johnnie , my Johnnie . 
I did n't like it one bit . 
But what could I do ? ? 
A man had to have his release -- at least that 's what the boys used to say in high school -- and I was n't providing it for Johnnie . 
Neither was his wife . 
She would n't have , even if he 'd asked her . 
But he would n't ask her -- he was n't the kind of man who would force his wife to submit to him against her will . 
And he would n't leave her either -- he 'd told me that . 
He was too honorable to leave his wife penniless and leave those helpless children without their daddy . 
Johnnie loved me and wanted me . 
But the only love I was giving him was the pure kind . 
It was weeks before we even kissed for the first time . 
Against my folks ' wishes , we 'd been seeing each other for short rides in the truck . 
The rides were tame enough -- mostly we talked . 
But by the time the first crackling of spring came around , we both knew we were hopelessly in love . 
Yet even then we did nothing much but talk , and maybe neck a little . 
" It 's so crazy " , I told him once . 
" I always imagined I would probably end up marrying a minister or somebody like that . 
Somebody with no vices . 
You know " . 
" And you fall for a lumber jockey " . 
" Who drinks far too much " . 
" And smokes too much " . 
" And " , I was ticking off the items on my fingers , " swears too much and goes out with the boys , whoever they are , too much , and who ever goes to church and wo n't even listen when I try to persuade him to come back to the fold " . 
He examined his nails carefully . 
" I could walk out the door " . 
" Do n't you dare " . 
" And never show my face or my truck around here again " . 
He still was n't looking at me . 
" You would n't " . 
" Or I could visit Lucille Warren " . 
" You would n't . 
Please ! ! 
You would n't " . 
He shrugged noncommittally . 
" I might " . 
And now he was seeing her . 
He 'd just admitted it to me . 
I huddled miserably beside him in the truck . 
It was all my doing -- his seeing her . 
Johnnie and I had been innocent in our love , and that was the way I wanted to keep it . 
At first , Johnnie had n't understood -- how could he , not being a religious person like me ? ? 
But then he had said , " All right , kid , if that 's how you want it , that 's how it 'll be " . 
But what had I done , trying to keep us pure ? ? 
I had driven him into the arms of that scheming woman . 
I had just the same as delivered him into the hands of the Devil ! ! 
So one week later , I surrendered to him in the little motel on Route 10 . 
My very first time . 
I was desperate to hold him , to give him whatever in this world he wanted or needed , and to keep him from the clutches of Lucille Warren . 
And , though at the time I blushed to admit it even to myself , there was in me a growing desire , a sexual awareness , that Johnnie had set in motion , an awareness that no other man had ever triggered . 
I wanted him , with a terrifying fierceness . 
Astonishingly enough , it was my own voice I heard there in the darkness , begging this man to make love to me . 
" Love me , Johnnie " . 
" I will , kitten " ! ! 
Outside , in the summertime fields behind the motel , a thousand crickets serenaded us . 
" Will you always love me this way " ? ? 
" Uh huh . 
Always " . 
" Mmm " . 
And I snuggled closer to the man I loved . 
It was as blissful and fulfilling a night as any bride ever experienced . 
I had had no wedding ceremony , no witnesses , no certificate of marriage , but I had all the joy that goes with them . 
" Johnnie ? ? 
" It ca n't be wrong , can it ? ? 
Not really " . 
Johnnie rose on one elbow . 
" Stop worrying . 
It 's never wrong if love is real " . 
I took great comfort from his words , and smiled to myself in the darkness . 
Infinite peace , complete contentment . 
Idiot 's delight , I later discovered . 
I felt no conflict between what I was doing and my strict religious upbringing . 
I had always resisted the passes made at me by other kids , and many times I had thought about my love for Johnnie who , being thirty , brought a maturity to love that the kids around town could know nothing about . 
I had also thought a lot about how God must look on true love , and so in a way I was keeping my promise to God , my promise to remain pure until I was married . 
I was practically a bride , after all . 
There would have been a ceremony if it had been possible . 
Of this , I had no doubt . 
Would n't Johnnie do practically anything in the world to insure my happiness ? ? 
Of course he would . 
He 'd not only told me so , he 'd proved it . 
It was n't Johnnie 's fault that he was hopelessly tied down to that frightful woman who did her best to make his life unbearable . 
Just because he was honorable enough to want to continue supporting his two children , as any decent man would , that was no reason he should be denied his own small share of happiness too . 
And if I could contribute to that , I 'd do it . 
The cost did n't matter . 
No price is too high when true love is at stake . 
And I had no doubts about how true this love was . 
I 'd never even petted with a boy , and after I met Johnnie he never touched me for the longest while , not until I all but threw myself at him . 
He was plenty attentive , all right , but he behaved like a gentleman , and I figured that , emotionally , I was closer to his age than to my own eighteen and a half . 
What could a mere twelve years matter ? ? 
It was n't , I was sure , a difference in age that came between people , but a difference in maturity . 
And had n't I rescued him from Lucille Warren ? ? 
She 'd have gotten him , if I had n't stopped her . 
After all , Lucille Warren was a husband-stealer from way back . 
But I 'd been a good girl and now God was blessing me with the gift of this magnificent man and the wondrous love we shared . 
It was only fitting that we seek out whatever joy our union might bring . 
" Love me " ? ? 
" Uh-huh . 
Love you " . 
" Always and always , Johnnie " ? ? 
" Always " . 
" Mmm " . 
Convention time in Boston . 
A chill wind in the air and the narrow streets packed with snow . 
From the entire eastern half of the nation they 'd be coming , members of the Young Christians ' League , and I 'd been chosen to represent our chapter . 
I had mixed emotions about going . 
I 'd been seeing Johnnie almost a year now , but I still did n't want to leave him for five whole days . 
But I had looked forward so much to being with this church group . 
I had n't been doing as much work as I used to in Westfield and I felt funny about that and wanted to work harder than ever . 
I wanted to just throw myself into the good works of this fine group . 
So I went to Boston . 
The first meeting was held in Faneuil Hall , a great big place where we were able to meet members from all the other states . 
My cousin Alma , at whose home I was staying during the convention , introduced me to a group of young people from Rhode Island . 
One of them was a very friendly , lovely fellow named Ronald , a boy about my age with slick , blond hair and dancing blue eyes . 
He looked very different from Johnnie -- in fact , he looked sort of like me . 
I thought so , and he mentioned it , and Alma said so too . 
After the meeting , there was going to be a party at someone 's house . 
I assumed Alma would get me there , but in the confusion of the meeting breaking up , we were separated . 
Outside the hall , I anxiously looked around for her , then all at once there was a hand on my elbow . 
" Hey , there , beautiful twin of mine " , Ronald said . 
" Need a pumpkin to get to the party " ? ? 
I could n't help laughing with him . 
" Well , I should find Alma " -- I began . 
" Alma , Schmalma . 
Come along with me " . 
I went . 
By the time we arrived , the party was already going strong . 
A couple of the girls were laughing rather shrilly and I realized they were drinking . 
My folks would n't dream of having alcohol in the house , so my first taste of it had been -- of course -- with Johnnie . 
I had n't liked it at first -- it was bitter and burning . 
But when Johnnie disguised the taste with ginger ale , I enjoyed it . 
Of course I enjoyed 'most anything if I did it with Johnnie . 
Johnnie I suddenly realized he 'd been totally out of my thoughts all evening . 
But that was only natural , I decided ; ; surely he was still resting snugly in my heart . 
" I do n't see Alma anywhere " , I said . 
" She 's invisible tonight . 
C'mon , let 's find out where they 're keeping the glasses " . 
I drew back . 
" I -- I do n't think so , Ronald . 
Not for me " . 
" Aw , come on " . 
" No -- really " . 
He shrugged . 
" Okay . 
But at least come along while I get lubricated " . 
The kitchen was jammed . 
Strange faces , most of them , and I was n't even sure all of them had come from the League meeting . 
