Dear Sirs : Let me begin by clearing up any possible misconception in your minds , wherever you are . 
The collective by which I address you in the title above is neither patronizing nor jocose but an exact industrial term in use among professional thieves . 
It is , I am reliably given to understand , the technical argot for those who engage in your particular branch of the boost ; ; i.e. , burglars who rob while the tenants are absent , in contrast to hot-slough prowlers , those who work while the occupants are home . 
Since the latter obviously require an audacity you do not possess , you may perhaps suppose that I am taunting you as socially inferior . 
Far from it ; ; I merely draw an etymological distinction , hoping that specialists and busy people like you will welcome such precision in a layman . 
Above all , disabuse yourselves of any thought that I propose to vent moral indignation at your rifling my residence , to whimper over the loss of a few objets d'art , or to shame you into rectitude . 
My object , rather , is to alert you to an aspect or two of the affair that could have the gravest implications for you , far beyond the legal sanctions society might inflict . 
You have unwittingly set in motion forces so malign , so vindictive , that it would be downright inhumane of me not to warn you about them . 
Quite candidly , fellows , I would n't be in your shoes for all the rice in China . 
As you 've doubtless forgotten the circumstances in the press of more recent depredations , permit me to recapitulate them briefly . 
Sometime on Saturday evening , August 22nd , while my family and I were dining at the Hostaria dell ' Orso , in Rome , you jimmied a window of our home in Bucks County , Pennsylvania , and let yourselves into the premises . 
Hastening to the attic , the temperature of which was easily hotter than the Gold Coast , you proceeded to mask the windows with a fancy wool coverlet , some khaki pants , and the like , and to ransack the innumerable boxes and barrels stored there . 
What you were looking for ( unless you make a hobby of collecting old tennis rackets and fly screens ) eludes me , but to judge from phonograph records scattered about a fumed-oak Victrola . 
You danced two tangos and a paso doble , which must have been fairly enervating in that milieu . 
You then descended one story , glommed a television set from the music room -- the only constructive feature of your visit , by the way -- and , returning to the ground floor , entered the master bedroom . 
From the curio cabinet on its south wall and the bureaus beneath , you abstracted seventeen ivory , metal , wood , and stone sculptures of Oriental and African origin , two snuffboxes , and a jade-handled magnifying glass . 
Rummaging through a stack of drawers nearby , you unearthed an antique French chess set in ivory and sandalwood , which , along with two box Kodaks , you added to your haul . 
Then , having wrapped the lot in an afghan my dog customarily slept on , you lammed out the front door , considerately leaving it open for neighbors to discover . 
So much for the tiresome facts , as familiar to you , I 'm sure , as to the constables and state troopers who followed in your wake . 
The foregoing , aided by several clues I 'll withhold to keep you on your toes , will pursue you with a tenacity worthy of Inspector Javert , but before they close in , gird yourselves , I repeat , for a vengeance infinitely more pitiless . 
Fourteen of the sculptures you took possess properties of a most curious and terrifying nature , as you will observe when your limbs begin to wither and your hair falls out in patches . 
In time , these minor manifestations will multiply and effloresce , riddling you with frambesia , the king 's evil , sheep rot , and clonic spasm , until your very existence becomes a burden and you cry out for release . 
All this , though , is simply a prelude , a curtain-raiser , for what ensues , and I doubt whether any Occidental could accurately forecast it . 
If , however , it would help to intensify your anguish , I can delimit the powers of a few of the divinities you 've affronted and describe the punishment they meted out in one analogous instance . 
Hold on tight . 
First of all , the six figures of the Buddha you heisted -- four Siamese heads , a black obsidian statuette in the earth-touching position , and a large brass figure of the Dying Buddha on a teakwood base . 
Now , you probably share the widespread Western belief that the Lord Buddha is the most compassionate of the gods , much more so than Jehovah and Allah and the rest . 
'fess up -- do n't you ? ? 
Well , ordinarily he is , except ( as the Wheel of the Law specifies ) toward impious folk who steal , disturb , or maltreat the Presence . 
Very peculiar retribution indeed seems to overtake such jokers . 
Eight or ten years ago , a couple of French hoods stole a priceless Khmer head from the Musee Guimet , in Paris , and a week later crawled into the Salpetriere with unmistakable symptoms of leprosy . 
Hell 's own amount of chaulmoogra oil did nothing to alleviate their torment ; ; they expired amid indescribable fantods , imploring the Blessed One to forgive their desecration . 
Any reputable French interne can supply you with a dozen similar instances , and I 'll presently recount a case out of my own personal experience , but , for the moment , let 's resume our catalogue . 
Whether the pair of Sudanese ivory carvings you lifted really possess the juju to turn your livers to lead , as a dealer in Khartoum assured me , I am not competent to say . 
Likewise the ivory Chinese female figure known as a " doctor lady " ( provenance Honan ) ; ; a friend of mine removing her from the curio cabinet for inspection was felled as if by a hammer , but he had previously drunk a quantity of applejack . 
The three Indian brass deities , though -- Ganessa , Siva , and Krishna -- are an altogether different cup of tea . 
They hail from Travancore , a state in the subcontinent where Kali , the goddess of death , is worshiped . 
Have you ever heard of Thuggee ? ? 
Nuf sed . 
But it is the wooden sculpture from Bali , the one representing two men with their heads bent backward and their bodies interlaced by a fish , that I particularly call to your attention . 
Oddly enough , this is an amulet against housebreakers , presented to the mem and me by a local rajah in 1949 . 
Inscribed around its base is a charm in Balinese , a dialect I take it you do n't comprehend . 
Neither do I , but the Tjokorda Agoeng was good enough to translate , and I 'll do as much for you . 
Whosoever violates our rooftree , the legend states , can expect maximal sorrow . 
The teeth will rain from his mouth like pebbles , his wife will make him cocu with fishmongers , and a trolley car will grow in his stomach . 
Furthermore -- and this , to me , strikes an especially warming note -- it shall avail the vandals naught to throw away or dispose of their loot . 
The cycle of disaster starts the moment they touch any belonging of ours , and dogs them unto the forty-fifth generation . 
Sort of remorseless , is n't it ? ? 
Still , there it is . 
Now , you no doubt regard the preceding as pap ; ; you 're tooling around full of gage in your hot rods , gorging yourselves on pizza and playing pinball in the taverns and generally behaving like Ubermenschen . 
In that case , listen to what befell another wisenheimer who tangled with our joss . 
A couple of years back , I occupied a Village apartment whose outer staircase contained the type of niche called a " coffin turn " . 
In it was a stone Tibetan Buddha I had picked up in Bombay , and occasionally , to make merit , my wife and I garlanded it with flowers or laid a few pennies in its lap . 
After a while , we became aware that the money was disappearing as fast as we replenished it . 
Our suspicions eventually centered , by the process of elimination , on a grocer 's boy , a thoroughly bad hat , who delivered cartons to the people overhead . 
The more I probed into this young man 's activities and character , the less savory I found him . 
I learned , for example , that he made a practice of yapping at dogs he encountered and , in winter , of sprinkling salt on the icy pavement to scarify their feet . 
His energy was prodigious ; ; sometimes he would be up before dawn , clad as a garbage collector and hurling pails into areaways to exasperate us , and thereafter would hurry to the Bronx Zoo to grimace at the lions and press cigar butts against their paws . 
Evenings , he was frequently to be seen at restaurants like Enrico & Paglieri 's or Peter 's Backyard drunkenly donning ladies ' hats and singing " O Sole Mio " . 
In short , and to borrow an arboreal phrase , slash timber . 
Well , the odious little toad went along chivying animals and humans who could n't retaliate , and in due course , as was inevitable , overreached himself . 
One morning , we discovered not only that the pennies were missing from the idol but that a cigarette had been stubbed out in its lap . 
" Now he 's bought it " , said my wife contentedly . 
" No divinity will hold still for that . 
He 's really asking for it " . 
And how right she was . 
The next time we saw him , he was a changed person ; ; he had aged thirty years , and his face , the color of tallow , was crisscrossed with wrinkles , as though it had been wrapped in chicken wire . 
Some sort of nemesis was haunting his footsteps , he told us in a quavering voice -- either an ape specter or Abe Spector , a process-server , we could n't determine which . 
His eyes had the same dreadful rigid stare as Dr. Grimesby Roylott 's when he was found before his open safe wearing the speckled band . 
The grocery the youth worked for soon tired of his depressing effect on customers , most of whom were sufficiently neurotic without the threat of incubi , and let him go . 
The beautiful , the satisfying part of his disintegration , however , was the masterly way the Buddha polished him off . 
Reduced to beggary , he at last got a job as office boy to a television producer . 
His hubris , deficiency of taste , and sadism carried him straightaway to the top . 
He evolved programs that plumbed new depths of bathos and besmirched whole networks , and quickly superseded his boss . 
Not long ago , I rode down with him in an elevator in Radio City ; ; he was talking to himself thirteen to the dozen and smoking two cigars at once , clearly a man in extremis . 
" See that guy " ? ? 
The operator asked pityingly . 
" I would n't be in his shoes for all the rice in China . 
There 's some kind of a nemesis haunting his footsteps " . 
However one looks at it , therefore , I 'd say that your horoscope for this autumn is the reverse of rosy . 
The inventory you acquired from me is n't going to be easy to move ; ; you ca n't very well sidle up to people on the street and ask if they want to buy a hot Bodhisattva . 
Additionally , since you 're going to be hors de combat pretty soon with sprue , yaws , Delhi boil , the Granville wilt , liver fluke , bilharziasis , and a host of other complications of the hex you 've aroused , you must n't expect to be lionized socially . 
My advice , if you live long enough to continue your vocation , is that the next time you 're attracted by the exotic , pass it up -- it 's nothing but a headache . 
As you can count on me to do the same . 
Compassionately yours , S.J. Perelman revulsion in the desert the doors of the D train slid shut , and as I dropped into a seat and , exhaling , looked up across the aisle , the whole aviary in my head burst into song . 
She was a living doll and no mistake -- the blue-black bang , the wide cheekbones , olive-flushed , that betrayed the Cherokee strain in her Midwestern lineage , and the mouth whose only fault , in the novelist 's carping phrase , was that the lower lip was a trifle too voluptuous . 
From what I was able to gauge in a swift , greedy glance , the figure inside the coral-colored boucle dress was stupefying . 
