Needless to say , I was furious at this unparalleled intrusion upon free enterprise . 
How dared they demand to " snoop " in private financial records , disbursements , confidential contracts and agreements ? ? 
" It is as though " , I said on the historic three-hour , coast-to-coast radio broadcast which I bought ( following Father Coughlin and pre-empting the Eddie Cantor , Manhattan Merry-go-round and Major Bowes shows ) " That Man in the White House , like some despot of yore , insisted on reading my diary , raiding my larder and ransacking my lingerie ! ! 
" My impassioned plea for civil rights created a landslide of correspondence and one sponsor even asked me to consider replacing the Eddie Cantor comedy hour on a permanent basis . 
But what quarter could a poor defenseless woman expect from a dictator who would even make so bold as to close all of the banks in our great nation ? ? 
The savage barbarian hordes of red Russian Communism descended on the Athens that was mighty Metronome , sacking and despoiling with their Bolshevistic battle cry of " Soak the rich ' ! ! 
After an unspeakable siege , lasting the better part of two months , it was announced that the studio " owed " the government a tax debt in excess of eight million dollars while I , who had always remained aloof from such iniquitous practices as paying taxes on the salary I had earned and the little I legally inherited as Morris ' helpless relict , was " stung " with a personal bill of such astronomical proportions as to " wipe out " all but a fraction of my poor , hard-come-by savings . 
I was also publicly reprimanded , dragged through the mud by the radical press and made a figure of fun by such leftist publications as The New Republic , The New Yorker , Time and The Christian Science Monitor . 
It was then that I availed myself of the rights of a citizen and declared the income tax unconstitutional . 
The litigation was costly and seemingly endless . 
I fought like a tigress but by the time I appealed my case to the Supreme Court ( 1937 ) , Mr. Roosevelt and his " henchmen " had done their " dirty work " all too well , even going so far as to attempt to " pack " the highest tribunal in the land in order to defeat little me . 
Presidential coercion had succeeded not only in poisoning the courtiers , " toadies " and sycophants of the " bench " against me , but it had been so far-reaching as to discourage any lawyer in the nation from representing me ! ! 
I was ready , like Portia , to present my own brief . 
But the Supreme Court would n't even hear my case ! ! 
My plea was unanimously voted down and " thrown out " . 
Again , my name was on all the front pages . 
I was , it seemed , persona non grata in every quarter , but not entirely without a staunch following of noted political thinkers and students of jurisprudence . 
As Charles Evans Hughes said , " Miss Poitrine 's limitations as an actress are exceeded only by her logic as a litigant " . 
Albert Einstein was quoted as saying : " The workings of the woman 's mind amaze me " . 
Henry Ford spoke of me as " utterly astounding " . 
Heywood Broun wrote : " Belle Poitrine is the most original thinker since Caligula " , and even F.D.R. had to concede that " if the rest of this nation showed the foresight and patriotism of Miss Poitrine , America would rapidly resemble ancient Babylon and Nineveh " . 
Not only were the court costs prohibitive , but I was subjected to crippling fines , in addition to usurious interest on the unpaid " debts " which the government claimed that Metronome and I owed -- a severe financial blow . 
Nor , as Manny said , had the notoriety done my career " any good " . 
My enemies were only too anxious to level against me such charges as " reactionary " , " robber baroness " , and even " traitor " ! ! 
Traitor indeed ! ! 
I point now with pride to the fact that , long ere the Committee on Un-American Activities , the Minute Women , the Economic Council and other such notable " watchdog " organizations were so much as heard of , I was Hollywood 's leading bulwark against communism , fighting single-handedly " creeping socialism " against such insuperable odds as the Fascio-Communist troops of the NRA , PWA , WPA , CCC and an army of more than twenty-two million mercenaries whom F.D.R. employed secretly , through the transparent ruse of regular " relief " checks . 
Needless to say , my art suffered drastically during this turbulent period . 
Could it do otherwise ? ? 
Even though I have always had a genius for " throwing myself " into every role and " playing it for all it 's worth " , no actress can be expected to do her best work when her fortune , her reputation , her livelihood , her home and her nation itself are all imperilled . 
Such sweeping distractions are hardly conducive to " Oscar " winning performances . 
I tried my hardest , with little help , may I say , from my husband and leading man , but somehow the outside pressures were too severe . 
Having ( through my unflagging effort and devotion ) achieved stardom , a fortune and a world-renowned wife at an age when most young men are casting their first vote , Letch proceeded to neglect them all . 
Never a " quick study " , he now made no attempt to learn his " lines " and many a mile of film was wasted , many a scene -- sometimes involving as many as a thousand fellow thespians -- was taken thirty , forty , fifty times because Miss Poitrine 's co-star and " helpmate " had never learned his part . 
Each time Letch " went up " in his " lines " , I was the one to be patient , helpful and apologetic while he indulged in outbursts of temperament , profanity and abuse , blaming others , going into " sulks " and , on more occasions than I care to count , storming off the " set " for the rest of the day . 
As for his finances , I was never privileged to know exactly how much money Letch had " salted away " . 
It was I who paid for our little home , the food , the liquor , the servants -- even Letch 's bills at his tailor and the Los Angeles Athletic Club . 
Never once did he buy me a single gift and for our third anniversary he gave me a dislocated jaw . 
( But that is another story . 
) As for his private monies , they were rapidly dissipated in drinking , gaming and carousing . 
More than once I was confronted by professional gamblers , " bookies " , loan " sharks " , gangsters , " thugs " and " finger men " -- people of a class I did not even know existed -- to repay my husband 's staggering losses , " or else " I shuddered to think that someone so dear to me could even associate with such a sinister milieu . 
And at three different times during our turbulent marriage strange girls , with the commonest of accents , telephoned to announce to me that Letch had sired their unborn children ! ! 
Having the deepest of maternal instincts , my heart fairly bled when I thought of the darling pink and white " bundles from heaven " I would have proudly given my husband . 
" Ah , you 're too old " , was invariably his ungallant and untrue retort whenever I suggested " starting a family " . 
Letch had made it abundantly clear that he did not care for the company of my own precious daughter . 
I now felt it wiser to keep Baby-dear in school and -- during the summers -- at a camp run by the Society of Friends all year around . 
Her presence only made Letch more distant and irritable and , in the hurry of buying Chateau Belletch , I had neglected to consider a room for Baby-dear , so there was no place to put her , anyhow . 
( I sometimes feel that God , in His infinite wisdom , wants us to have these inexplicable little lapses of memory . 
It almost always works out for the best . 
) Yet I adored this man , Letch Feeley , why , I can not say . 
With faint heart and a brave smile , I endured his long absences from Chateau Belletch , his coldness , his indifference , his slights and his abuse . 
The times I can recall when I was publicly humiliated by him -- lovely dinner parties in our Trianon Suite where the collation was postponed and postponed and postponed , only to be served dry and overcooked at a table where the host 's chair was vacant ; ; a " splash party " at the new pool , which I had built in the hope of keeping Letch away from public beaches , when Letch and a certain Aquacutie stayed underwater together for the better part of an hour ; ; a lovely Epiphany party at Errol Flynn 's , on which sacred occasion Letch stole away with an unknown " starlet " , leaving me " high and dry " to get home as best I could . 
These are but a sampling of the insults I endured . 
As Mrs. Letch Feeley , was it any wonder that I , once the social arbiter of Filmdom , was excluded from the smart entertainments given by the Astaires , the Coopers , the Gables , the Colmans , the Rathbones , the Taylors , the Thalbergs and such devout , closely knit families as the Barrymores and the Crosbys ? ? 
As Letch 's antisocial conduct increased , our invitations decreased and my heart was in my mouth whenever I played hostess at a fashionable " screenland " gathering . 
Between 1935 and 1939 Letch and I made ten films together , each less successful , both artistically and commercially , than the one before it . 
Our last joint venture , Sainted Lady , a deeply religious film based on the life of Mother Cabrini , and timed so that its release date would coincide with the beatification of America 's first saint in November , 1938 , was a fiasco from start to finish . 
As I was playing Mother Cabrini , the picture was actually " all mine " , with nearly every scene built around me . 
But in order to keep Letch in the public eye and out of trouble , I wrote in a part especially for him -- that of a dashing ruffian who " sees the light " and is saved by the inspiring example of Mother Cabrini . 
And did he appreciate my efforts on his behalf ? ? 
Did he trouble to memorize the very small part which I had " tailor-made " to his specifications , a role eventually cut down to three short speeches ? ? 
Did he show the rest of the cast -- numbering four thousand -- the consideration of arriving at the studio punctually -- or even at all ? ? 
He did not ! ! 
The " shooting " went on for eight months ! ! 
Most of our working days were spent on the telephone calling " bookies " , illegal gambling dens , a certain " residential club for young actresses " , more than a hundred different bars or the steam room of the athletic club . 
Whenever he deigned to appear at the studio he was " hung over " , uncooperative , rude and insulting . 
He made many tasteless , irreverent and unfunny remarks , not only about me in the title role , but about religion in general . 
By the time the film was released we were three million dollars over-spent , war was imminent and the public apparently had forgotten all about Mother Cabrini . 
Thanks to Letch Feeley and the terrible strain he imposed on me , the notices were few and unfavorable . 
Only George Santayana seemed to understand and appreciate the film when he wrote : " Miss Poitrine has perpetrated the most eloquent argument for the Protestant faith yet unleashed by Hollywood " . 
But it was small consolation . 
In a rare fit of anger and spite , I " farmed out " my own husband to a small and most undistinguished studio to make one picture as a form of punishment . 
( An actor must have discipline . 
) The film was called The Diet of Worms , which I felt was just what Letch deserved . 
It turned out to be a life of Martin Luther , of all things ! ! 
It was a disaster ! ! 
In clothes , Letch simply did not project . 
He was laughed off the screen . 
At the same time , however , I availed myself of the services of that great English actor and master of make-up , Sir Gauntley Pratt , to do a " quickie " called The Mystery of the Mad Marquess , in which I played a young American girl who inherits a haunted castle on the English moors which is filled with secret passages and sliding panels and , unbeknownst to anyone , is still occupied by an eccentric maniac . 
It was a " potboiler " made on a " shoestring " and not the sort of film I like , as all I had to do was look blank and scream a great deal . 
My heart was not in it , but , oddly enough , it remains the most financially successful picture of my career . 
( I watched it on television late one night last week and it " stands up " remarkably well , even twenty years later . 
) Letch had returned from his debacle unrepentant and more badly behaved than before . 
I really loved that boy , and , in a feverish attempt to preserve our marriage and to try to revive the wonderful , wonderful person Letch had once been , I took my troubles to Momma , hoping that her earthy advice would help me . 
" If I could only think of something at the studio , near me , to absorb his boundless energy " , I said . 
" What is Letch interested in " ? ? 
" Bookies , booze and babes " , Momma said bluntly . 
Her reply stung me , but this was too important to let my hurt make any difference . 
" I ca n't turn the studio into a gambling hell or a saloon " , I said . 
