Into Washington on President-elect John F. Kennedy 's Convair , the Caroline , winged Actor-Crooner Frank Sinatra and his close Hollywood pal , Cinemactor Peter Lawford , Jack Kennedy 's brother-in-law . 
Also included in the entourage : a dog in a black sweater , Frankie and Peter had an urgent mission : to stage a mammoth Inauguration Eve entertainment gala in the capital 's National Guard Armory . 
Frankie was fairly glutted with ideas , as he had hinted upon his arrival : " It 's really tremendous when you think Ella Fitzgerald is coming from Australia . 
I could talk to you for three hours and still not be able to give you all of our plans " ! ! 
As the plans were laid , some several thousand fat cats were to be ensconced in the armory 's $ 100 seats and in 68 ringside boxes priced at $ 10,000 each . 
The biggest single act would doubtless be staged by Frankie himself : his Inaugural wardrobe had been designed by Hollywood Couturier Don Loper , who regularly makes up ladies ' ensembles . 
Soon after Loper leaked the news that Frankie had ordered " two of everything " just " in case he spills anything " , Frankie got so mad at the chic designer that he vowed he would not wear a stitch of Loper clothing . 
A year after he was catapulted over nine officers senior to him and made commandant of the Marine Corps , General David M. Shoup delivered a peppery annual report in the form of a " happy , warless New Year " greeting to his Pentagon staff . 
Said Leatherneck Shoup : " A year ago I took the grips of the plow in my hands . 
After pushing an accumulation of vines and weeds from the moldboard , I lifted the lines from the dust and found hitched to that plow the finest team I ever held a rein on . 
Little geeing and hawing have been necessary " . 
But Shoup also gave the Corps a tilling in spots . 
Speaking of " pride " , he deplored the noncommissioned officer " whose uniform looks like it belonged to someone who retired in 1940 ; ; the officer with the yellow socks or the bay window . 
A few of these people are still around " . 
Old and new briefly crossed paths in the U.S. Senate , then went their respective ways . 
At a reception for new members of Congress , Oregon Democrat Maurine Neuberger , taking the Senate seat held by her husband Richard until his death last March , got a brotherly buss from Democratic Elder Statesman Adlai Stevenson , U.S. Ambassador-designate to the U.N .. Meanwhile , after 24 years in the Senate , Rhode Island 's durable Democrat Theodore Francis Greene -- having walked , swum and cerebrated himself to the hearty age of 93 -- left that august body ( voluntarily , because he could surely have been re-elected had he chosen to run again last November ) , as the oldest man ever to serve in the Senate . 
The most famous undergraduate of South Philadelphia High School is a current bobby-sox idol , Dreamboat Cacophonist Fabian ( real name : Fabian Forte ) , 17 , and last week it developed that he will remain an undergraduate for a while . 
The principal of the school announced that -- despite the help of private tutors in Hollywood and Philadelphia -- Fabian is a 10-o'clock scholar in English and mathematics . 
Lacking his needed credits in those subjects , Fabian will not graduate with his old classmates next week . 
South Philadelphia High 's principal added that the current delay was caused by the " pressure " of a movie that the toneless lad was making . 
To Decathlon Man Rafer Johnson ( Time cover , Aug. 29 ) , whose gold medal in last summer 's Olympic Games was won as much on gumption as talent , went the A.A.U. 's James E. Sullivan Memorial Trophy as the outstanding U.S. amateur athlete of 1960 . 
As the world 's top sportsman -- pro or amateur -- Sports Illustrated tapped golf 's confident Arnold Palmer ( Time cover , May 2 ) , who staged two cliffhanging rallies to win both the Masters and U.S. Open crowns , went on to win a record $ 80,738 for the year . 
Tooling through Sydney on his way to race in the New Zealand Grand Prix , Britain 's balding Ace Driver Stirling Moss , 31 , all but smothered himself in his own exhaust of self-crimination . 
" I 'm a slob " , he announced . 
" My taste is gaudy . 
I 'm useless for anything but racing cars . 
I 'm ruddy lazy , and I 'm getting on in years . 
It gets so frustrating , but then again I do n't know what I could do if I gave up racing " . 
Has Moss no stirling virtues ? ? 
" I appreciate beauty " . 
One of Nikita Khrushchev 's most enthusiastic eulogizers , the U.S.S.R. 's daily Izvestia , enterprisingly interviewed Red-prone Comedian Charlie Chaplin at his Swiss villa , where he has been in self-exile since 1952 . 
Chaplin , 71 , who met K. when the Soviet boss visited England in 1956 , confided that he hopes to visit Russia some time this summer because " I have marveled at your grandiose experiment and I believe in your future " . 
Then Charlie spooned out some quick impressions of the Nikita he had glimpsed : " I was captivated by his humor , frankness and good nature and by his kind , strong and somewhat sly face " . 
G. David Thompson is one of those names known to the stewards of transatlantic jetliners and to doormen in Europe 's best hotels , but he is somewhat of an enigma to most people in his own home town of Pittsburgh . 
There the name vaguely connotes new-rich wealth , a reputation for eccentricity , and an ardor for collecting art . 
Last week , in the German city of Dusseldorf , G. David Thompson was making headlines that could well give Pittsburgh pause . 
On display were 343 first-class paintings and sculptures from his fabled collection -- and every single one of them was up for sale . 
Like Philadelphia 's late Dr. Albert C. Barnes who kept his own great collection closed to the general public ( Time , Jan. 2 ) , Thompson , at 61 , is something of a legend in his own lifetime . 
He made his fortune during World War 2 , when he took over a number of dying steel plants and kept them alive until the boom . 
Even before he hit big money , he had begun buying modern paintings . 
He gave the impression of never having read a word about art , but there was no doubt that he had an eye for the best . 
He was able to smell a bargain -- and a masterpiece -- a continent away , and the Museum of Modern Art 's Alfred Barr said of him : " I have never mentioned a new artist that Thompson did n't know about " . 
He might barge into a gallery , start haggling over prices without so much as a word of greeting . 
He could be lavishly generous with friends , cab drivers and bellboys , but with dealers he was tough . 
He bought up Cezannes , Braques , Matisses , Legers , a splendid Picasso series , more than 70 Giacometti sculptures . 
He gathered one of the biggest collections of Paul Klees in the world . 
All these he hung in his burglarproof home called Stone 's Throw , outside Pittsburgh , and only people he liked and trusted ever got to see them . 
Two years ago Thompson offered his collection to the city . 
But he insisted that it be housed in a special museum . 
Pittsburgh turned him down , just as Pittsburgh society had been snubbing him for years . 
He went then to a 40-year-old Basel art dealer named Ernst Beyeler , with whom he had long been trading pictures . 
Last year Beyeler arranged to sell $ 1,500,000 worth of Klees to the state of North Rhine-Westphalia , which will house them in a museum that is yet to be built . 
Last week most of the other prizes , once offered to Pittsburgh , went on the block . 
At the opening of the Dusseldorf show , Thompson himself scarcely glanced at the treasures that he was seeing together for the last time . 
In fact he seemed delighted to get rid of them . 
Some observers speculated that this might be his revenge on his home town . 
Thompson himself said : " I want to enjoy once more the pleasure of bare walls waiting for new pictures " . 
Break in Georgia The University of Georgia has long claimed that it does not discriminate against any applicant on the basis of race or color . 
But in all its 175 years , not a single Negro student has entered its classrooms . 
Last week Federal District Judge William A. Bootle ordered the university to admit immediately a " qualified " Negro boy and girl . 
Their entry will crack the total segregation of all public education , from kindergarten through graduate school , in Georgia -- and in Alabama , Mississippi and South Carolina as well . 
For 18 months , Hamilton Holmes , 19 , and Charlayne Hunter , 18 , had tried to get into the university . 
They graduated together from Atlanta 's Turner High School , where Valedictorian Holmes was first in the class and Charlayne third . 
The university rejected them on a variety of pretexts , but was careful never to mention the color of their skins . 
Holmes went to Atlanta 's Morehouse ( Negro ) College , where he is a B student and star halfback . 
Charlayne studied journalism at Detroit 's Wayne State University . 
Last fall , after they took their hopes for entering Georgia to court , Judge Bootle ordered them to apply again . 
Charlayne was " tentatively " admitted for next fall , after state investigators questioned her white roommate at Wayne State . 
But Holmes was rejected again " on the basis of his record and interview " . 
The evidence in court was testimony about the interview , which for Holmes lasted an hour , although at least one white student at Georgia got through this ritual by a simple phone conversation . 
Holmes was asked if he had ever visited a house of prostitution , or a " beatnik parlor or teahouse " . 
No , said he , but officials still called him " evasive " . 
They also said he lied in saying that he had never been " arrested " . 
Their reason : Holmes once paid a $ 20 speeding fine , had his license suspended . 
Negro lawyers dug into the records of 300 white students , found that many were hardly interviewed at all -- and few had academic records as good as Hamilton Holmes . 
The real reason for his rejection , they argued , is the fact that Georgia law automatically cuts off funds for any desegregated school . 
Judge Bootle 's decision : " The two plaintiffs are qualified for admission to said university and would already have been admitted had it not been for their race and color " . 
The state will appeal -- but few think it will actually try to close the university . 
" Surprised and pleased " , Students Holmes and Hunter may enter the University of Georgia this week . 
Catch for Chicago When the University of Chicago 's Chancellor Lawrence A. Kimpton submitted his resignation last March , a mighty talent hunt gripped the Midway . 
Out went letters to 60,000 old grads , asking for suggestions . 
Such academic statesmen as James B. Conant were consulted . 
Two committees pondered 375 possible Kimpton successors , including Adlai Stevenson , Richard Nixon , and Harvard 's Dean McGeorge Bundy . 
The debate led to a decision that Chicago needed neither a big name nor an experienced academic administrator , but rather , as Trustee Chairman Glen A. Lloyd put it , " a top scholar in his own right " -- a bright light to lure other top scholars to Chicago . 
Last week Chicago happily found its top scholar in Caltech 's acting dean of the faculty : dynamic Geneticist George Wells Beadle , 57 , who shared the 1958 Nobel Prize in medicine and physiology for discovering how genes affect heredity by controlling cell chemistry ( Time , Cover , July 14 , 1958 ) . 
It fell to Chancellor Kimpton , now a Standard Oil ( Indiana ) executive , to spend his nine-year reign tidying up Chicago after the 21-year typhoon of Idealist Robert Maynard Hutchins . 
He threw out some of Hutchins ' more wildly experimental courses , raised sagging undergraduate enrollment to 2,100 , nearly doubled endowment to $ 139.3 million . 
But though Kimpton put Chicago in what he felt was working order , some old grads feel that it still needs the kind of lively teachers who filled it in the heady Hutchins era . 
At Caltech , Geneticist Beadle has stuck close to his research as head of the school 's famous biology division since 1946 . 
But he has shown a sixth-sense ability to spot , recruit and excite able researchers , and has developed unexpected talents in fund raising and speech-making . 
Beadle is even that rare scientist who takes an interest in money matters ; ; he avidly reads the Wall Street Journal , and took delight in driving a $ 250 model A Ford for 22 years , then selling it for $ 300 . 
