Radio is easily outdistancing television in its strides to reach the minority listener . 
Lower costs and a larger number of stations are the key factors making such specialization possible . 
The mushrooming of FM outlets , offering concerts ( both jazz and classical ) , lectures , and other special events , is a phenomenon which has had a fair amount of publicity . 
Not so well known is the growth of broadcasting operations aimed wholly or partly at Negro listeners -- an audience which , in the United States , comprises some 19,000,000 people with $ 20,000,000,000 to spend each year . 
Of course , the nonwhite listener does his share of television watching . 
He even buys a lot of the products he sees advertised -- despite the fact that the copy makes no special bid for his favor and sponsors rarely use any but white models in commercials . 
But the growing number of Negro-appeal radio stations , plus evidence of strong listener support of their advertisers , give time salesmen an impressive argument as they approach new prospects . 
It is estimated that more than 600 stations ( of a total of 3,400 ) do a significant amount of programing for the Negro . 
At least 60 stations devote all of their time to reaching this audience in about half of the 50 states . 
These and other figures and comments have been reported in a special supplement of Sponsor magazine , a trade publication for radio and TV advertisers . 
For 10 years Sponsor has issued an annual survey of the size and characteristics of the Negro market and of successful techniques for reaching this market through radio . 
In the past 10 years , Sponsor observes , these trends have become apparent : Negro population in the U.S. has increased 25 per cent while the white population was growing by 18 per cent . 
" The forgotten 15 million " -- as Sponsor tagged the Negro market in its first survey -- has become a better-remembered 19 million . 
Advertisers are changing their attitudes , both as to the significance of this market and the ways of speaking to it . 
Stations programing to Negro listeners are having to upgrade their shows in order to keep pace with rising educational , economic , and cultural levels . 
Futhermore , the station which wants real prestige must lead or participate in community improvement projects , not simply serve on the air . 
In the last decade the number of Negro-appeal radio program hours has risen at least 15 per cent , and the number of Negro-appeal stations has increased 30 per cent , according to a research man quoted by Sponsor . 
A year ago the Negro Radio Association was formed to spur research which the 30-odd member stations are sure will bring in more business . 
The 1960 census underscored the explosive character of the population growth . 
It also brought home proof of something a casual observer might have missed : that more than half of the U.S. Negroes live outside the southeastern states . 
Also , the state with the largest number of Negroes is New York -- not in the South at all . 
In New York City , WLIB boasts " more community service programs than any other Negro station " and " one of the largest Negro news staffs in America " . 
And WWRL 's colorful mobile unit , cruising predominately Negro neighborhoods , is a frequent reminder of that station 's round-the-clock dedication to nonwhite interests . 
Recently , WWRL won praise for its expose of particular cases of employment agency deceit . 
A half-dozen other stations in the New York area also bid for attention of the city 's Negro population , up about 50 per cent in the past decade . 
In all big cities outside the South , and even in small towns within the South , radio stations can be found beaming some or all of their programs at Negro listeners . 
The Keystone Broadcasting System 's Negro network includes 360 affiliated stations , whose signals reach more than half the total U.S. Negro population . 
One question which inevitably crops up is whether such stations have a future in a nation where the Negro is moving into a fully integrated status . 
Whatever the long-range impact of integration , the owners of Negro-appeal radio stations these days know they have an audience and that it is loyal . 
Advertisers have discovered the tendency of Negroes to shop for brand names they have heard on stations catering to their special interests . 
And many advertisers have been happy with the results of letting a Negro disc jockey phrase the commercial in his own words , working only from a fact sheet . 
What sets Negro-appeal programing apart from other radio shows ? ? 
Sponsor magazine notes the stress on popular Negro bands and singers ; ; rhythm-and-blues mood music ; ; " race " music , folk songs and melodies , and gospel programs . 
Furthermore , news and special presentations inform the listener about groups , projects , and personalities rarely mentioned on a general-appeal station . 
Advertising copy frequently takes into account matters of special Negro concern . 
Sponsor quotes John McLendon of the McLendon-Ebony station group as saying that the Southern Negro is becoming conscious of quality and " does not wish to be associated with radio which is any way degrading to his race ; ; he tends to shy away from the hooting and hollering personalities that originally made Negro radio programs famous " . 
The sociological impact is perhaps most eloquently summed up in this quotation of J. Walter Carroll of KSAN , San Francisco : " Negro-appeal radio is more important to the Negro today , because it provides a direct and powerful mirror in which the Negro can hear and see his ambitions , achievements and desires . 
It will continue to be important as a means of orientation to the Negro , seeking to become urbanized , as he tries to make adjustment to the urban life . 
Negro radio is vitally necessary during the process of assimilation " . 
Presentation of " The Life And Times Of John Sloan " in the Delaware Art Center here suggests a current nostalgia for human values in art . 
Staged by way of announcing the gift of a large and intimate Sloan collection by the artist 's widow , Helen Farr Sloan , to the Wilmington Society of the Fine Arts , the exhibition presents a survey of Sloan 's work . 
From early family portraits , painted before he entered the schools of the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts , the chronology extends to a group of paintings executed in his last year ( 1951 ) and still part of his estate . 
Few artists have left a life work so eloquent of the period in which they lived . 
Few who have painted the scenes around them have done so with so little bitterness . 
The paintings , drawings , prints , and illustrations all reflect the manners , costumes , and mores of America in the first half of the present century . 
Obviously Sloan 's early years were influenced by his close friend Robert Henri . 
As early as 1928 , however , the Sloan style began to change . 
The dark pigments of the early work were superseded by a brighter palette . 
The solidity of brush stroke yielded to a hatching technique that finally led to virtual abandonment of American genres in favor of single figure studies and studio nudes . 
The exhibition presents all phases of Sloan 's many-sided art . 
In addition to the paintings are drawings , prints , and illustrations . 
Sloan created such works for newspaper supplements before syndication threw him out of a job and sent him to roam the streets of New York , thereby building for America an incomparable city survey from paintings of McSorley 's Saloon to breezy clotheslines on city roofs . 
One of the most appealing of the rooftop canvases is " Sun And Wind On The Roof " , with a woman and child bracing themselves against flapping clothes and flying birds . 
Although there are landscapes in the show ( one of the strongest is a vista of " Gloucester Harbor " in 1915 ) , the human element was the compelling factor in Sloan 's art . 
Significant are such canvases as " Bleeker Street , Saturday Night " , with its typically American crowd ( Sloan never went abroad ) ; ; the multifigure " Traveling Carnival " , in which action is vivified by lighting ; ; or " Carmine Theater , 1912 " , the only canvas with an ash can ( and foraging dog ) , although Sloan was a member of the famous " Eight " , and of the so-called " Ash-Can School " , a term he resented . 
Not all the paintings , however , are of cities . 
The exhibition touches briefly on his sojourn in the Southwest ( " Koshare in the Dust " , a vigorous Indian dance , and landscapes suggest the influence of western color on his palette ) . 
The fact that Sloan was an extrovert , concerned primarily with what he saw , adds greatly to the value of his art as a human chronicle . 
There are 151 items in the Wilmington show , including one painting by each member of the " Eight " , as well as work by Sloan 's friends and students . 
Supplementing the actual art are memorabilia -- correspondence , diaries , books from the artist 's library , etc. . All belong to the collection being given to Wilmington over a period of years by Mrs. Sloan , who has cherished such revelatory items ever since she first studied with Sloan at the Art Students League , New York , in the 1920 's . 
To enable students and the public to spot Sloan forgeries , the Delaware Art Center ( according to its director , Bruce St. John ) will maintain a complete file of photographs of all Sloan works , as well as a card index file . 
The entire Sloan collection will be made available at the center to all serious art students and historians . 
The current exhibition , which remains on view through Oct. 29 , has tapped 14 major collections and many private sources . 
Any musician playing Beethoven here , where Beethoven was born , is likely to examine his own interpretations with special care . 
In a sense , he is offering Bonn what its famous son ( who left as a youth ) never did -- the sound of the composer 's mature style . 
Robert Riefling , who gave the only piano recital of the recently concluded 23rd Beethoven Festival , penetrated deep into the spirit of the style . 
His readings were careful without being fussy , and they were authoritative without being presumptuous . 
The 32 C Minor Variations with which he opened moved fluently yet logically from one to another , leaving the right impression of abundance under discipline . 
The D Minor Sonata , Op. 31 No. 2 , introduced by dynamically shaped arpeggios , was most engaging in its moments of quasi-recitative -- single lines in which the fingers seemed to be feeling their way toward the idea to come . 
These inwardly dramatic moments showed the kind of " opera style " of which Beethoven was genuinely capable , but which did not take so kindly to the mechanics of staging . 
Two late Sonatas , Op. 110 and 111 , were played with similar insight , the disarming simplicities of the Op. 111 Adagio made plain without ever becoming obvious . 
The two were separated from each other by the Six Bagatelles of Op. 126 . 
Herr Riefling , in everything he gave his large Beethoven Hall audience , proved himself as an interpreter of unobtrusive authority . 
Volker Wangenheim , who conducted Bonn 's Stadtisches Orchester on the following evening , made one more conscious of the process of interpretation . 
Herr Wangenheim has only recently become the city 's music director , and is a young man with a clear flair for the podium . 
But he weighted the Eighth Symphony , at times , with a shuddering subjectivity which seemed considerably at odds with the music . 
He might have been hoping , to all appearances , that this relatively sunny symphony , in conjunction with the Choral Fantasy at the end of the program , could amount to something like the Ninth ; ; but no amount of head-tossing could make it so . 
The conductor 's preoccupation with the business of starting and stopping caused occasional raggedness , as with the first orchestra entrance in the Fourth Piano Concerto , but when he put his deliberations and obsequies aside and let the music move as designed , it did so with plenty of spring . 
The concerto 's soloist , Hans Richter-Haaser , played with compensatory ease and economy , though without the consummate plasticity to which we had been treated on the previous evening by Herr Riefling . 
His was a burgomaster 's Beethoven , solid and sensible . 
Everybody returned after intermission for the miscellaneous sweepings of the Fantasy For Piano , Chorus , And Orchestra In C Minor , made up by its composer to fill out one of his programs . 
The entrance of the Stadtisches Gesangverein ( Bonn 's civic chorus ) was worth all the waiting , however , as the young Rhenish voices finally brought the music to life . 
The last program of this festival , which during two weeks had sampled most compositional categories , brought the Cologne Rundfunk-Sinfonie-Orchester and Rundfunkchor to Bonn 's gold-filled hall for a performance of the Missa Solemnis . 
