Ring Of Bright Water , by Gavin Maxwell . 
211 pages . 
Dutton . 
A5 . 
Only once in a very long while comes a book that gives the reader a magic sense of sharing a rare experience . 
" Ring Of Bright Water " by Gavin Maxwell is just that -- a haunting , warmly personal chronicle of a man , an otter , and a remote cottage in the Scottish West Highlands . 
" He has married me with a ring of bright water " , begins the Kathleen Raine poem from which Maxwell takes his title , and it is this mystic bond between the human and natural world that the author conveys . 
The place is Camusfearna , the site of a long-vanished sea-village opposite the isle of Skye . 
It is a land of long fjords , few people , a single-lane road miles away -- and of wild stags , Greylag geese , wild swans , dolphins and porpoises playing in the waters . 
How Maxwell recounts his first coming to Camusfearna , his furnishing the empty house with beach-drift , the subtle changes in season over ten years , is a moving experience . 
Just the evocations of time and place , of passionate encounter between man and a natural world which today seems almost lost , would be enough . 
But it is n't . 
There is Mijbil , an otter who travelled with Maxwell -- and gave Maxwell 's name to a new species -- from the Tigris marshes to his London flat . 
It may sound extravagant to say that there has never been a more engaging animal in all literature . 
This is not only a compliment to Mijbil , of whom there are a fine series of photographs and drawings in the book , but to the author who has catalogued the saga of a frightened otter cub 's journey by plane from Iraq to London , then by train ( where he lay curled in the wash basin playing with the water tap ) to Camusfearna , with affectionate detail . 
Mij , as his owner was soon to learn , had strange , inexplicable habits . 
He liked to nip ear lobes of unsuspecting visitors with his needle-sharp teeth . 
He preferred sleeping in bed with his head on a pillow . 
Systematically he would open and ransack drawers . 
Given a small ball or marbles , he would invent games and play by himself for hours . 
With curiosity and elan , he explored every inch of glen , beach and burn , once stranding himself for hours on a ledge high up a sheer seventy-foot cliff and waiting with calm faith to be rescued by Maxwell , who nearly lost his life in doing so . 
A year and a day of this idyll is described for the reader , one in which not only discovery of a new world of personality is charted , but self-discovery as well . 
In the solitude of Camusfearna there had been no loneliness . 
" To be quite alone where there are no other human beings is sharply exhilarating ; ; it is as though some pressure had suddenly been lifted , allowing an intense awareness a sharpening of the senses " . 
Now , with the increasing interdependence between himself and Mij came a knowledge of an obscure need , that of being trusted implicitly by some creature . 
Two other people in time shared Mijbil 's love : " it remained around us three that his orb revolved when he was not away in his own imponderable world of wave and water ; ; we were his Trinity , and he behaved towards us with a mixture of trust and abuse , passion and irritation . 
In turn each of us in our own way depended , as gods do , upon his worship " . 
Yet the idyll ended . 
The brief details of Mijbil 's death lend depth to the story , give it an edge of ironic tragedy . 
Man , to whom Mij gave endless affection and fealty , was responsible in the form of a road worker with a pickaxe who somehow becomes an abstract symbol of the savage in man . 
But then , through a strange coincidence , Maxwell manages to acquire Idal , a female otter , and the fascinating story starts once more . 
One is not sure who emerges as the main personality of this book -- Mijbil , with his rollicking ways , or Maxwell himself , poet , portrait painter , writer , journalist , traveller and zoologist , sensitive but never sentimental recorder of an unusual way of life , in a language at once lyrical and forceful , vivid and unabashed . 
This reviewer read the book when it was first brought out in England with a sense of discovery and excitement . 
Now Gavin Maxwell 's Ring Of Bright Water has widened to enchant the world . 
New York -- The performances of the Comedie Francaise are the most important recent events in the New York theater . 
They serve to contradict a popular notion that the Comedie merely repeats , as accurately as possible , the techniques of acting the classics that prevailed in the 17th century . 
On the contrary , the old plays are continually being reinterpreted , and each new production of a classic has only a brief history at the Comedie . 
Of course , the well-received revivals last longer than the others , and that further reminds us that the Comedie is not insensitive to criticism . 
The directors of the Comedie do not respond to adverse notices in as docile and subservient a manner as the Broadway producers who , in two instances this season , closed their plays after one performance . 
But they are aware of the world outside , they court public approval , they delight in full houses , and they occasionally dare to experiment in interpreting a dramatic classic . 
In France , novel approaches to the classic French plays are frequently attempted . 
The government pays a subsidy for revival of the classics , and this policy attracts experimenters who sometimes put Moliere 's characters in modern dress and often achieve interesting results . 
So far as I know , the Comedie has never put Moliere 's people in the costumes of the 20th century , but they do reinterpret plays and characters . 
Last season , the Comedie 's two principal experiments came to grief , and , in consequence , we can expect fairly soon to see still newer productions of Racine 's " Phedre " and Moliere 's " School For Wives " . 
The new " Phedre " was done in 17th century setting , instead of ancient Greek ; ; perhaps that is the Comedie 's equivalent for thrusting this play 's characters into our own time . 
The speaking of the lines seemed excessively slow and stately , possibly in an effort to capture the spirit of 17th century elegance . 
A few literary men defended what they took to be an emphasis on the poetry at the expense of the drama , but the response was mainly hostile and quite violent . 
The new " School For Wives " was interpreted according to a principle that is becoming increasingly common in the playing of classic comedy -- the idea of turning some obviously ludicrous figure into a tragic character . 
Among the Moliere specialists of some years ago , Louis Jouvet tried to humanize some of the clowns , while Fernand Ledoux , often performing at the Comedie , made them more gross than Moliere may have intended . 
Apparently , Jouvet and Ledoux attempted just these dissimilar approaches in the role of Arnolphe in " The School For Wives " . 
I say " apparently " although I saw Jouvet as Arnolphe when he visited this country shortly before his death ; ; by that time , he seemed to have dropped the tragic playing of the last moments of the comedy . 
Arnolphe , it will be recalled , is a man of mature years who tries to preserve the innocence of his youthful wife-to-be . 
The part can lend itself to serious treatment ; ; one influential French critic remarked : " Pity for Arnolphe comes with age " . 
Accordingly , at the Comedie last year , Jean Meyer played a sympathetic Arnolphe and drew criticism for turning the comedy into a tragedy . 
But the stuff of tragedy was not truly present and the play became only comedy acted rather slowly . 
Wisely , the Comedie has brought Moliere 's " Tartuffe " on its tour and has left " The School For Wives " at home . 
Tartuffe is the religious hypocrite who courts his benefactor 's wife . 
Jouvet played him as a sincere zealot , and Ledoux , at the Comedie , made him a gross buffoon , or so the historians tell us . 
Louis Seigner , who formerly played the deluded benefactor opposite Ledoux , is the Tartuffe of the present production , which he himself directed . 
His Tartuffe observes the golden mean . 
His red face , his coarse gestures , and his lustful stares bespeak his sensuality . 
But his heavenward glances and his pious speeches are not merely perfunctory ; ; of course , they do not reflect sincerity , but they exhibit a concern to make a good job out of his pious impersonation . 
Occasionally , Seigner draws some justly deserved laughs by his quick shifts from one personality to another . 
The whole role , by the way , is a considerable transformation for anyone who has seen Seigner in his other parts . 
His normal specialty is playing the good-natured old man , frequently stupid or deluded but never mean or sly . 
Here , he is , quite persuasively , the very embodiment of meanness and slyness . 
Seigner is the dean of the company , the oldest actor in point of continuous service . 
In that function , he helps to rebut another legend about the Comedie . 
We are often told that the Comedie has , unfortunately , life-contracts with old actors who are both mediocre and lazy , drawing their pay without much acting but probably doing real service to the Comedie by staying off the stage . 
Seigner , however , is a fine actor and probably the busiest man in the company ; ; among his other parts are the leads in " The Bourgeois Gentleman " and " The Imaginary Invalid " . 
In Moliere 's farce , " The Tricks Of Scapin " , Robert Hirsch undertakes another of the great roles . 
Here some innovation is attempted . 
To begin with , Scapin is a trickster in the old tradition of the clever servant who plots the strategy of courtship for his master . 
Hirsch 's Scapin is healthy , cheerful , energetic , revelling in his physical agility and his obvious superiority to the young gentlemen whom he serves . 
Hirsch says that he has given the role certain qualities he has observed in the city toughs of the real world . 
And surely his Scapin has a fresh directness , a no-nonsense quality that seems to make him his own master and nobody 's servant . 
Django Reinhardt , the ill-fated gypsy , was a true artist , one who demonstrated conclusively the power of art to renew itself and flow into many channels . 
There is hardly a jazz guitarist in the business today who does n't owe something to Django . 
And Django owed much to Louis Armstrong . 
He told once of how he switched his style of playing to jazz after listening to two old Armstrong records he bought in the Flea Market in Paris . 
It was the first jazz he had heard . 
Django , who was born Jean Baptiste Reinhardt in Belgium and who died in 1953 in France , was an extraordinary man . 
Most of the fingers on his left hand were burned off when he fell asleep with a cigarette . 
And this was before he began to play his startlingly beautiful jazz . 
You can catch up with him -- if you have n't already -- on RCA-Victor 's album . 
" Djangology " , made up of tracks he recorded with Stephane Grappelly and the Quintet of the Hot Club of France . 
This is a choice item and Grappely deserves mention too , of course . 
He is one of the few men in history who plays jazz on a violin . 
They play : " Minor Swing " , " Honeysuckle Rose " , " Beyond The Sea " , " Bricktop " , " Heavy Artillery " , " Djangology " , " After You 've Gone " , " Where Are You , My Love " ? ? 
" I Saw Stars " , " Lover Man " , " Menilmontant " and " Swing 42 " . 
All this is great proceedings -- get the minutes . 
Kid Ory , the trombonist chicken farmer , is also one of the solid anchor points of jazz . 
He dates back to the days before the first sailing ship pulled into New Orleans . 
His horn has blown loud and clear across the land for more years than he cares to remember . 
Good Time Jazz has released a nice two-record album which he made . 
He is starred against Alvin Alcorn , trumpet ; ; Phil Gomez , clarinet ; ; Cedric Haywood , piano ; ; Julian Davidson , guitar ; ; Wellman Braud , bass , and Minor Hall , drums . 
The set contains " High Society " , " Do What Ory Say " , " Down Home Rag " , " Careless Love " , Jazz Me Blues " , " Weary Blues " , " Original Dixieland One-Step " , " Bourbon Street Parade " , " Panama " , " Toot , Toot , Tootsie " , " Oh Did- n't He Ramble " , " Beale Street Blues " , " Maryland , My Maryland " , " 1919 Rag " , " Eh , La Bas " , " Mood Indigo " , and " Bugle Call Rag " . 
All this will serve to show off the Ory style in fine fashion and is a must for those who want to collect elements of the old-time jazz before it is too late to lay hands on the gems . 
