" The Lord is my light and my salvation ; ; whom shall I fear ? ? 
The Lord is the strength of my life ; ; of whom shall I be afraid " ? ? 
( Psalm 27 : 1 ) A certain teacher scheduled a " Fear Party " for her fourth grade pupils . 
It was a session at which all the youngsters were told to express their fears , to get them out in the open where they could talk about them freely . 
The teacher thought it was so successful that she asks : " Would n't it be helpful to all age groups if they could participate in a similar confessional of their fears and worries " ? ? 
Dr. George W. Crane , a medical columnist , thinks it would . 
He says : " That would reduce neurotic ailments tremendously . 
Each week an estimated 20 million patients call upon us doctors . 
Of this number , 50 % , or 10 million patients have no diagnosable physical ailments whatever . 
They are ' worry warts . 
Yet they keep running from one physician to another , largely to get a willing ear who will listen to their parade of troubles . 
One of the most wholesome things you could schedule in your church would thus be a group confessional where people could admit of their inner tensions " . 
We are evidently trying hard to think of new ways to deal with the problem of fear these days . 
It must be getting more serious . 
People are giving their doctors a hard time . 
One doctor made a careful survey of his patients and the reasons for their troubles , and he reported that 40 % of them worried about things that never happened ; ; 30 % of them worried about past happenings which were completely beyond their control ; ; 12 % of them worried about their health , although their ailments were imaginary ; ; 10 % of them worried about their friends , neighbors , and relatives , most of whom were quite capable of taking care of themselves . 
Only 8 % of the worries had behind them real causes which demanded attention . 
Well , most of our fears may be unfounded , but after you discover that fact , you have something else to worry about : Why then do we have these fears ? ? 
What is the real cause of them ? ? 
What is there about us that makes us so anxious ? ? 
Look at the things we do to escape our fears and to forget our worries . 
We spend millions of dollars every year on fortune tellers and soothsayers . 
We spend billions of dollars at the race tracks , and more billions on other forms of gambling . 
We spend billions of dollars on liquor , and many more billions on various forms of escapist entertainment . 
We consume tons of aspirin and tranquilizers and sleeping pills in order to get a moment 's relief from the tensions that are tearing us apart . 
A visitor from a more peaceful country across the sea was taken to one of our amusement parks , and after he had seen it all , he said to a friend : " You must be a very sad people " . 
" Sad " was not the right word , of course . 
He should have said " jittery " , for that 's what we are . 
And that 's worse than sad . 
Watch people flock to amusement houses , cocktail lounges , and night clubs that advertise continuous entertainment , which means an endless flow of noise and frivolity by paid entertainers who are supposed to perform in those incredible ways which are designed to give men a few hours of dubious relaxation -- watch them and you can tell that many of them are running away from something . 
In one of his writings Pascal speaks of this mania for diversion as being a sign of misery and fear which man can not endure without such opiates . 
Yes , and as tension mounts in this world , fear is increasing . 
Does that explain why there is now such a big boom in the bomb shelter business ? ? 
We have so many new things to fear in this age of nuclear weapons , dreadful things which are too horrible to contemplate . 
I doubt that " fear parties " and " group confessionals " will help very much . 
Suppose we do get our fears out in the open , what then ? ? 
Is n't that where most of them are already -- right out on the front page of our newspapers ? ? 
Maybe we are talking about them too much . 
The question is : what are we going to do about them ? ? 
Meanwhile , the enemy will capitalize on our fears , if he can . 
Hitler did just that 23 years ago , building up tensions that first led to a Munich and then to a world war . 
The fear of war can make us either too weak to stand and too willing to compromise , or too reckless and too nervous to negotiate for peace as long as there is any chance to negotiate . 
It is said that fear in human beings produces an odor that provokes animals to attack . 
It could have the same effect on Communists . 
The President of the United States has said : " We will never negotiate out of fear , and we will never fear to negotiate " . 
That is a sound position , but it is important that Moscow shall recognize it not merely as the word of a president but as the mind of a free people who are not afraid . 
And that 's another reason why it is imperative for us these days to conquer our fears , to develop the poise that promotes peace . 
Turning to the Word of God , we find the only sure way to do that . 
In Psalm 27 : 1 you read those beautiful words which you must have in your heart if you are to master the fears that surround you , or to drive them out if they have you in their grip : " The Lord is my light and my salvation ; ; whom shall I fear ? ? 
The Lord is the strength of my life ; ; of whom shall I be afraid " ? ? 
Well , you say , those are beautiful words all right , but it was easy for the psalmist to sing them in his day . 
He did n't live in a world of perpetual peril like ours . 
He did n't know anything about the problems we face today . 
No ? ? 
Read the next two verses : " When the wicked , even mine enemies and my foes , came upon me to eat up my flesh , they stumbled and fell . 
Though an host should encamp against me , my heart shall not fear : though war should rise against me , in this will I be confident " . 
That is almost a perfect description of the predicament in which we find ourselves today , is n't it ? ? 
Our enemy is also threatening to devour us . 
He has already devoured huge areas of the world , putting men behind concrete walls and iron curtains and barbed wire , reducing them to slavery , systematically crushing not only their bodies but their souls , and shooting them to death if they try to escape their prison . 
Yes indeed , we too can see a warlike host of infidels encamped against us . 
What a terrible thing , that " wailing wall " in Berlin ! ! 
A man with a baby in his arms stood there pleading for his wife who is on the other side with the rest of the family . 
Another man tried to swim across the river from the East to the West , but was shot and killed . 
A middle aged woman opened a window on the third floor of her house which was behind the wall , she threw out a few belongings and then jumped ; ; she was fatally injured . 
The entrance to a church has been walled up , so that the congregation , most of which is in the western sector , can not worship God there anymore . 
Practically everybody in Berlin has relatives and friends that live in the opposite part of the city . 
People stand at the wall giving vent to their feelings , weeping , pounding it with their fists , pleading for loved ones . 
But the enemy answers them from loudspeakers that pour out Communist propaganda with a generous mixture of terrible profanity . 
There is only one escape left , a tragic one , and too many people are taking it : suicide . 
The normal rate of suicides in East Berlin was one a day , but since the border was closed on August 13 it has jumped to 25 a day ! ! 
These things may be happening many miles away from us but really they are right next door . 
We are all involved in them , deeply involved . 
And nobody knows what comes next . 
We live from crisis to crisis . 
And there is only one way for a man to conquer his fears in such a world . 
He must learn to say with true faith what the psalmist said in a similar world : " The Lord is my light and my salvation ; ; whom shall I fear ? ? 
The Lord is the strength of my life ; ; of whom shall I be afraid " ? ? 
Notice that this man had a threefold conception of God which is the secret of his faith . 
First , " the Lord is my light " . 
He lived in a very dark world , but he was not in the dark . 
The same God who called this world into being when He said : " Let there be light " ! ! 
-- those were His very first creative words -- He began the world with light -- this God still gives light to a world which man has plunged into darkness . 
For those who put their trust in Him He still says every day again : " Let there be light " ! ! 
And there is light ! ! 
In fact , He came into this world Himself , in the person of His Son , Jesus Christ , who stood here amid the darkness of human sin and said : " I am the light of the world : he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness , but shall have the light of life " . 
The psalmist could say that God was his light even though he could only anticipate the coming of Christ . 
He lived in the dawn ; ; he could only see the light coming over the horizon . 
We live in the bright daylight of that great event ; ; for us it is a fact in history . 
Why should we not have the same faith , and an even greater experience of the light which it gives ? ? 
This is the faith that moved the psalmist to add his second conception of God : " The Lord is my salvation " . 
He knew that his God would save him from his enemies because He had saved him from his sins . 
If God could do that , He could do anything . 
The enemies at his gate , threatening to eat up his flesh , were nothing compared with the enemy of sin within his own soul . 
And God had conquered that one by His grace ! ! 
So why worry about all the others ? ? 
The apostle Paul said the same thing in the language and faith of the New Testament : " He that spared not His own Son , but delivered Him up for us all , how shall He not with Him freely give us all things ? ? 
If God be for us , who can be against us ? ? 
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ ? ? 
Shall tribulation , or distress , or persecution , or famine , or nakedness , or peril , or sword " ? ? 
( Romans 31 , 32 , 35 ) Salvation ! ! 
This is the key to the conquest of fear . 
This gets down to the heart of our problem , for it reconciles us with God , whom we fear most of all because we have sinned against Him . 
When that fear has been removed by faith in Jesus Christ , when we know that He is our Savior , that He has paid our debt with His blood , that He has met the demands of God 's justice and thus has turned His wrath away -- when we know that , we have peace with God in our hearts ; ; and then , with this God on our side , we can face the whole world without fear . 
And so the psalmist gives us one more picture of God : " The Lord is the strength of my life " . 
The word is really " stronghold " . 
It recalls those words of another psalm : " God is our refuge and strength , a very present help in trouble . 
Therefore will not we fear , though the earth be removed , and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea Come , behold the works of the Lord , what desolations He hath made in the earth . 
