Pope Leo 13 , on the 13th day of December 1898 , granted the following indulgences : " An indulgence of three hundred days is granted to all the Faithful who read the Holy Gospels at least a quarter of an hour . 
A Plenary Indulgence under the usual conditions is granted once a month for the daily reading " . 
Pope Pius the Sixth , at Rome , in April , 1778 , wrote the following : " The faithful should be excited to the reading of the Holy Scriptures : For these are the most abundant sources which ought to be left open to everyone , to draw from them purity of morals and of doctrine , to eradicate errors which are so widely disseminated in these corrupt times " . 
The American Bishops assembled at the Third Plenary Council of Baltimore urged the Catholic people to read the Holy Bible . 
" We hope " , they said , " that no family can be found amongst us without a correct version of the Holy Scriptures " . 
They recommended , also , that " at a fixed hour , let the entire family be assembled for night prayers , followed by a short reading of the Holy Scriptures " . 
Since the Catholic Church expresses such desire that the Sacred Scriptures be read , the following taken from the Holy Bible ( New Catholic Edition ) will prove a means of grace and a source of great spiritual blessing . 
The need of the new birth Do not wonder that I said to thee , " You must be born again " . 
St. John 3 : 7 . 
The new birth is necessary because god is holy . 
But as the One who called you is holy , be you also holy in all your behavior ; ; for it is written , You shall be holy , because I am holy . 
1 , St. Peter 15 , 16 . 
Holiness without which no man will see God . 
Hebrews 14 . 
The new birth is necessary because all have sinned . 
As it is written , There is not one just man ; ; there is none who understands ; ; there is none who seeks after God . 
All have gone astray together ; ; All have sinned and have need of the glory of God . 
Romans 3 : 10-12 , 23 . 
The new birth is necessary because the natural man is spiritually dead and blind . 
Therefore as through one man sin entered into the world and through sin death , and thus death has passed unto all men because all have sinned . 
Romans 12 . 
You also , when you were dead by reason of your offenses and sins . 
Ephesians 2 : 1 . 
And if our gospel also is veiled , it is veiled only to those who are perishing . 
In their case , the god of this world ( Satan ) has blinded their unbelieving minds , that they should not see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ , who is the image of God . 
2 , Corinthians 4 : 3 , 4 . 
For his workmanship we are , created in Christ Jesus . 
Ephesians 10 . 
The new birth is effected through the word of God . 
For you have been reborn , not from corruptible seed but from incorruptible , through the word of God . 
1 St. Peter 23 . 
Of his own will he has begotten us by the word of truth . 
St. James 18 . 
Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again of water ( symbol of the Word of God , see Ephesians 26 ) and the Spirit , he can not enter into the kingdom of God . 
That which is born of the flesh is flesh ; ; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit . 
St. John 3 : 5 , 6 . 
Evidences of the new birth if we are born of god we have faith in Christ as the only saviour . 
Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ is born of God . 
1 St. John 5 : 1 . 
As many as received him were born of God . 
St. John 12 , 13 . 
If we are born of God we do not practice sin as a habit . 
Whoever is born of God does not commit sin ( That is , he does not practice sin . 
Cf. 1 St. John 2 : 1 ) . 
1 St. John 3 : 9 . 
We know that no one who is born of God commits sin . 
1 St. John 18 . 
( The new nature , received at the time of regeneration , is divine and holy , and as the believer lives under the power of this new nature he does not practice sin . 
) if we are born of god we practice righteousness . 
If you know that he ( God ) is just ( righteous ) , know that everyone also who does what is just ( righteous ) has been born of him . 
1 St. John 29 . 
If we are born of God we love God . 
Everyone who loves is born of God , and knows God . 
1 St. John 4 : 7 . 
If we are born of God we love the brethren . 
We know that we have passed from death to life , because we love the brethren . 
He who does not love abides in death . 
1 St. John 14 . 
If we are born of God we overcome the world . 
All that is born of God overcomes the world ; ; and this is the victory that overcomes the world , our faith . 
1 St. John 5 : 4 . 
If we are born of God we grow in ( not into , but in ) grace . 
But grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior , Jesus Christ . 
2 St. Peter 18 . 
If we are born of God we persevere unto the end . 
I am convinced of this , that he who has begun a good work in you will bring it to perfection until the day of Christ Jesus . 
Philippians 1 : 6 . 
Now to him who is able to preserve you without sin and to set you before the presence of his glory , without blemish , in gladness , to the only God our Savior , through Jesus Christ our Lord , belong glory and majesty , dominion and authority , before all time , and now , and forever . 
St. Jude 24 . 
The new birth is necessary because the spiritual kingdom requires a spiritual nature . 
Jesus answered and said to him ( Nicodemus ) " Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again , he can not see the kingdom of God " . 
" Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again of water and the Spirit , he can not enter into the kingdom of God . 
That which is born of the flesh is flesh ; ; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit . 
Do not wonder that I said to thee , ' You must be born again ' " . 
St. John 3 : 3 , 5-7 . 
The nature of the new birth the new birth is a new creation . 
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision but a new creation is of any account . 
Galatians 15 . 
If then any man is in Christ , he is a new creature ( literally , " He is a new creation ) , the former things have passed away ; ; behold , they are made new ! ! 
2 Corinthians 17 . 
For by grace you have been saved through faith ; ; and that not from yourselves , for it is the gift of God ; ; not as the outcome of works , lest anyone may boast . 
For his workmanship we are , created in Christ Jesus . 
Ephesians 2 : 8-10 . 
The new birth is the implantation of a new life . 
I came that they may have life . 
St. John 10 . 
He who has the Son has the life . 
He who has not the Son has not the life . 
1 St. John 12 . 
He who believes in the Son ( Jesus Christ , the Son of God ) , has everlasting life . 
St. John 36 . 
The new birth is the impartation of the divine nature . 
Through which he has granted us the very great and precious promises , so that through them you may become partaker of the divine nature . 
2 St. Peter 1 : 4 . 
The new birth is Christ living in you by faith . 
Christ in you , your hope of glory . 
Colossians 27 . 
It is now no longer I that live , but Christ lives in me . 
And the life that I now live in the flesh , I live in the faith of the Son of God , who loved me and gave himself up for me . 
Galatians 20 . 
To have Christ dwelling through faith in your hearts . 
Ephesians 17 . 
The new birth is miraculous and mysterious . 
The wind blows where it will , and thou hearest its sound but dost not know where it comes from or where it goes . 
So is everyone who is born of the Spirit . 
St. John 3 : 8 . 
The new birth is immediate and instantaneous . 
Amen , amen , I say to you , he who hears my word , and believes him who sent me , has life everlasting , and does not come to judgment , but has passed from death to life . 
St. John 24 . 
The means of the new birth the new birth is a work of god . 
But to as many as received him he gave the power of becoming sons of God ; ; to those who believe in his name : Who were born not of blood , nor of the will of the flesh , nor of the will of man , but of God . 
St. John 12 , 13 . 
A final word You may be very religious , a good church member , an upright , honest and sincere person ; ; you may be baptized , confirmed , reverent and worshipful ; ; you may attend mass , do penance , say prayers and zealously keep all the sacraments and ceremonies of the church ; ; you may have the final and extreme unction but if you are not born again you are lost and headed for hell and eternal punishment . 
You can not be saved ; ; you can not go to heaven unless you are born again . 
Our blessed Lord Jesus Christ , the sinless Son of God , who could not lie , said , " Amen , amen , I say to thee , unless a man be born again , he can not see the kingdom of God " ( St. John 3 : 3 ) . 
" You must be born again " ( St. John 3 : 7 ) . 
Being convinced that salvation is alone by accepting Christ as Saviour , and being convicted by the Holy Spirit of my lost condition , I do repent of all effort to be saved by any form of good works , and just now receive Jesus as my personal Saviour and salvation as a free gift from Him . 
You may do as you please with God now . 
It is permitted . 
God placed Himself in men 's hands when He sent Jesus Christ into the world as perfect God and perfect Man in one Being . 
He was then in man 's hands . 
They cursed Him . 
It was permitted . 
Men spit on Him . 
God allowed it . 
They called Him a devil . 
God withheld His wrath . 
Finally men arrested Him , gave Him a mock trial , flogged Him , nailed Him on a cross and hung Him between earth and heaven ; ; and God allowed it . 
You can do likewise though Christ is not bodily present . 
You can ignore Him . 
You can ignore His Book , the Bible , and His church . 
You can laugh at His blood-bought salvation , curse His followers , and laugh at hell . 
It is permitted . 
The eternal Christ may knock at your soul 's door , calling you to give up sin and prepare for heaven . 
You may refuse Him , spit on Him , call Him a devil , curse Him . 
It is permitted . 
You may take His name upon your lips in oaths and curses if you so choose . 
He is in your hands -- now . 
On the other hand , you may seek His favor , humble yourself before Him and beg His mercy , implore His forgiveness , forsake your sins , and abandon your whole life to Him . 
He has said , " Behold , I stand at the door , and knock : if any man hear my voice , and open the door , I will come in to him , and will sup with him , and he with me " ( Revelation 3:20 : : 20 ) . 
The choice is up to you . 
The latch is on your side of the door . 
The choice is yours : the revellings and banquetings of this world or quiet communion with God ; ; the ever burning lusts of the flesh or the powerful victory of Holy Spirit discipline . 
The choice is yours : God is in your hands , now . 
God has already set the day when you will be in His hands . 
What He does with you then depends on what you do with Him now . 
Then it will be a " fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God " if you have abused Him in your hands . 
