New rule no. 2 : : Do n't build from the outside in -- try to build from the inside out . 
Do n't insert your components into fixed openings , they may or may not fit ; ; position your components before you close them in . 
For example : Do n't wall in your kitchen before you hang the wall cabinets and set the appliances . 
It 's a lot quicker and easier to dimension the kitchen to fit the cabinets and erect the end wall after they are all in place . 
Set your bathtub before you close in the end of the bathroom . 
Do n't try to wrestle a 400-lb. tub A[fj] through a narrow doorway . 
Finish your plumbing before you frame it in ( most economical framing is a thin non-bearing partition on either side of the pipes ) . 
Finish installing and connecting up your furnace and your water heater before you wall them in . 
There is no better way to waste time than trying to install a furnace in a finished A[fj] closet . 
Do n't position your studs before you insert your windows in conventional construction ; ; that way you may pay more to shim the window into place than you paid for the window . 
You can save all that shimming time if you set your windows in one , two , three order -- first the stud on one side , then the window , then the stud on the other side . 
Install your disappearing stair ( or stairs ) to the attic and finish your overhead ducts before you drywall the ceiling . 
Do n't close in your house until everything has been carried in . 
Last wall Bob Schmitt erects is the wall between the house and garage . 
That way he can truck his parts right indoors and unload them under the roof . 
No auto maker would dream of putting the head on the engine before he fitted the pistons in the block . 
And trailer makers , those most industrialized and therefore most efficient of homebuilders , say they save hundreds of dollars by always building from the inside out . 
New rule no. 3 : rethink everything to get all the big savings the revolution in materials handling offers you . 
This revolution is the biggest build-better-for-less news of all , because : 1 . 
It makes it easy to handle much heavier units , so you can plan to build with much bigger and heavier prefabricated components like those shown in the pictures alongside . 
2 . 
It makes materials handling the only construction cost that ( like earthmoving and roadbuilding ) should be lower today than in 1929 . 
3 . 
It changes the answers to " Who should do what , and where " ? ? 
It lessens the need for costly on-site fabrication and increases the chance for shop fabrication , where almost everything can be made better and cheaper . 
4 . 
It changes the answers on when to do what at the site . 
For example , instead of putting in your driveways last ( as many builders do ) you can now save money by putting them in first . 
Instead of closing the house in first ( as most builders do ) you can now cut your costs by not closing it in until you have to ( see p 121 ) . 
5 . 
It changes the answers on builder-dealer relations . 
Not so long ago many builders were finding they could cut their costs by " buying direct " and short-cutting the dealer . 
But now many of these same builders are finding they can cut their costs more by teaming up with a dealer who has volume enough to afford the most efficient specialized equipment to deliver everything just where it is needed -- drywall inside the house , siding along the sides , trusses on the walls , roofing on the roof , etc .. Says Clarence Thompson : " We dealers must earn our mark-up by performing a service for the builder cheaper than he could do it himself " . 
The revolution now under way in materials handling makes this much easier . 
The revolution is well under way , but much more remains to be done . 
Five years ago a House & Home Round Table cosponsored by the Lumber Dealers ' Research Council reported unhappily : " Only one lumber dealer in ten is equipped to handle unit loads ; ; only one box car in eight has the wide doors needed for unit loads ; ; only one producer in a hundred is equipped to package and ship unit loads ; ; only one builder in a thousand is equipped to receive unit loads . 
" So from raw materials to finished erection the costs of materials handling ( most of it inefficient ) add up to one-fourth of the total construction cost of housing " . 
" That House & Home Round Table was the real starting point for today 's revolution in materials handling " , says Clarence Thompson , long chairman of the Lumber Dealers ' Research Council . 
" It made our whole industry recognize the need for a new kind of teamwork between manufacturer , carrier , equipment maker , dealer , and builder , all working together to cut the cost of materials handling . 
Before that we lumber dealers were working almost single-handed on the problem " . 
Here is where things stand today : 1 . 
Almost all of the 3,000 lumber dealers who cater primarily to the new-house market and supply 90 % of this year 's new houses are mechanized . 
There are few areas left where a builder can not find a dealer equipped to save him money by delivering everything at lower cost just where his workmen will need it . 
2 . 
Practically all bulky housing products can now be ordered in standard units palletized or unitized for mechanical handling -- including lumber , asphalt shingles , glass block , face brick , plaster , lime , hardboard , gypsum wallboard and sheathing , cement , insulation sheathing , floor tile , acoustical tile , plaster base , and asbestos shingles . 
3 . 
Truck and materials-handling equipment makers now offer specialized units to meet almost every homebuilding need . 
For some significant new items see the pictures . 
4 . 
More than 50 % of all lumber is unitized ; ; an NLRDA survey found that at least 492 lumber mills will strap their shipments for mechanized handling . 
Of these , 376 said they make no extra charge for strapping in standard units , because they save enough on mechanized carloading to offset their strapping cost . 
Most of the others will swallow their $ .50 to $ 3 charge rather than lose a good customer . 
" With a 15,500-lb . 
fork-lift , dealers can unload unitized lumber from wide-door box cars for $ .30 compared with $ 1.65 or more to unload loose lumber one piece at a time " , says James Wright of A[fj] . 
5 . 
Lumber dealers and lumber manufacturers have agreed on a standard unit for unitized shipments -- 48 " " wide by a nominal 30 " " high ( or six McCracken packets 24 " " wide by nominal 7 " " high ) . 
These units make it easy to load as much as 48,000 bd ( say 120,000 lb in a 50 ' box car ) much more than the average for loose-loaded cars . 
6 . 
The railroads have responded by adding 20,000 more box cars with doors 12 ' or wider for forklift unloading ( a 21 % increase while the total number of box cars was falling 6 % ) and by cutting their freight rates twice on lumber shipped in heavily loaded cars . 
First was a 1958 cut of more than 50 % on that portion of the load in excess of 40,000 lb ; ; later came a 1961 cut on the West Coast ( still pending elsewhere ) of $ .07 on 70,000 lb-plus carloads ( which works out to more than $ 4 on that portion of the load in excess of 70,000 lb . 
7 . 
More unitized lumber is being shipped on flat cars , and NLRDA studies show that flat cars loaded with the new Type 6-B floating-load method can be unloaded for as little as $ .054 . 
For long hauls these shipments should be protected with water-proof paper . 
This costs from $ .75 to $ 2.30 , but the cover can pay off if the lumber is to be stored in the open . 
These carriers cut handling costs for the dealer -- and the builder . 
Says NRLDA 's James Wright : " Since 1958 carriers that move material from the yard to the job site have undergone more radical changes than any of the dealer 's other equipment " . 
The reason : today 's components and lumber packages are far too bulky to be handled by a truckdriver and a helper . 
So manufacturers have pioneered a new type of vehicle -- the self-unloading carrier . 
It cuts the lumber dealer 's cost because it takes only one man -- the driver -- to unload it , and because it unloads in a fraction of the time and at a fraction of the cost of hand unloading . 
And it helps the builder because it can handle a more efficiently packaged load , can deliver it to the best spot ( in some cases , right on the roof or inside the house ) , and never takes any of the builder 's high-priced labor to help unload it . 
Says Wright : " Our survey shows that one third of the retail dealers plan to increase the mechanization of their materials handling in the coming two years . 
And most of the gain will be in self-unloading vehicles " . 
New rule no. 4 : : Restudy what your men do , to help them waste less of the time you pay for . 
Half the manhours you pay for on most jobs are wasted because the job was not planned right , so the right tools were not handy at the right place at the right time , or the right materials were not delivered to the handiest spots or materials were not stacked in the right order for erection , or you bought cheap materials that took too long to fit , or your workmen had to come back twice to finish a job they could have done on one trip . 
Even " America 's most efficient builder " , Bob Schmitt of Berea , hopes to cut his labor costs another $ 2,000 per house as a result of the time-&-motion studies now being completed on his operation by industrial efficiency engineers from the Stanley Works . 
Already this study has suggested ways to cut his foundation manhours from 170 to 105 by eliminating idle time and wasted motion . 
Builder Eddie Carr of Washington , past president of NAHB , cut his bricklaying costs $ 150 a house by adopting the " SCR masonry process " worked out after careful time-&-motion studies by the Structural Clay Products Research Foundation to help bricklayers do better work for less . 
A midwestern builder cut his labor costs per thousand bricks from $ 81 to $ 43.50 by adopting this same process , cut them another $ 7.50 to $ 36 by buying his bricks in convenient , easy-to-spot 100-brick packages . 
The SCR process , with its precision corner-posts , its precision guide lines , its working level scaffold , and its hand-level brick supply takes eight manhours to get set , but once ready it makes it easy for bricklayers to lay a thousand bricks a day . 
See page 156 . 
One good way to cut your labor waste is to make sure you are using just the right number of men in each crew . 
Reports Jim Lendrum : " By studying men on the job , we found that two men -- a carpenter and a helper -- can lay a floor faster than three . 
We found that three men -- two carpenters and a helper -- can put up wall panels or trusses more economically than four men -- because four men do n't make two teams ; ; they make one inefficient three-men-and-a-helper team . 
We found that wherever you can use two teams on a job , five men , not four , is the magic number " . 
No house was ever built that could not have been built better for less if the work had been better planned and the work better scheduled . 
New rule no. 5 : : Do n't waste any $ .10-a-minute time on green lumber to save $ .03 a stud . 
This is the most penny-wise , pound-foolish chisel a builder can commit . 
Green lumber was all very well back in the days of wet plaster , when the framing lumber was bound to swell and then shrink as tons of water dried out the gypsum . 
But now that all production builders build with drywall and all smart builders build with panels , green lumber is an anachronism you can not afford . 
Green studs cost about $ .65 ; ; dry studs cost less than $ .03 more . 
So if a green stud makes a carpenter or a drywall finisher or anybody else waste even 20 seconds , the green stud becomes more expensive than a dry stud . 
