Nothing like Godot , he arrived before the hour . 
His letter had suggested we meet at my hotel at noon on Sunday , and I came into the lobby as the clock struck twelve . 
He was waiting . 
My wish to meet Samuel Beckett had been prompted by simple curiosity and interest in his work . 
American newspaper reviewers like to call his plays nihilistic . 
They find deep pessimism in them . 
Even so astute a commentator as Harold Clurman of The Nation has said that " Waiting For Godot " is " the concentrate of the contemporary European mood of despair " . 
But to me Beckett 's writing had seemed permeated with love for human beings and with a kind of humor that I could reconcile neither with despair nor with nihilism . 
Could it be that my own eyes and ears had deceived me ? ? 
Is his a literature of defeat , irrelevant to the social crises we face ? ? 
Or is it relevant because it teaches us something useful to know about ourselves ? ? 
I knew that a conversation with the author would not settle such questions , because a man is not the same as his writing : in the last analysis , the questions had to be settled by the work itself . 
Nevertheless I was curious . 
My curiosity was sharpened a day or two before the interview by a conversation I had with a well-informed teacher of literature , a Jesuit father , at a conference on religious drama near Paris . 
When Beckett 's name came into the discussion , the priest grew loud and told me that Beckett " hates life " . 
That , I thought , is at least one thing I can find out when we meet . 
Beckett 's appearance is rough-hewn Irish . 
The features of his face are distinct , but not fine . 
They look as if they had been sculptured with an unsharpened chisel . 
Unruly hair goes straight up from his forehead , standing so high that the top falls gently over , as if to show that it really is hair and not bristle . 
One might say it combines the man ; ; own pride and humility . 
For he has the pride that comes of self-acceptance and the humility , perhaps of the same genesis , not to impose himself upon another . 
His light blue eyes , set deep within the face , are actively and continually looking . 
He seems , by some unconscious division of labor , to have given them that one function and no other , leaving communication to the rest of the face . 
The mouth frequently breaks into a disarming smile . 
The voice is light in timbre , with a rough edge that corresponds to his visage . 
The Irish accent is , as one would expect , combined with slight inflections from the French . 
His tweed suit was a baggy gray and green . 
He wore a brown knit sports shirt with no tie . 
We walked down the Rue De L'Arcade , thence along beside the Madeleine and across to a sidewalk cafe opposite that church . 
The conversation that ensued may have been engrossing but it could hardly be called world-shattering . 
For one thing , the world that Beckett sees is already shattered . 
His talk turns to what he calls " the mess " , or sometimes " this buzzing confusion " . 
I reconstruct his sentences from notes made immediately after our conversation . 
What appears here is shorter than what he actually said but very close to his own words . 
" The confusion is not my invention . 
We can not listen to a conversation for five minutes without being acutely aware of the confusion . 
It is all around us and our only chance now is to let it in . 
The only chance of renovation is to open our eyes and see the mess . 
It is not a mess you can make sense of " . 
I suggested that one must let it in because it is the truth , but Beckett did not take to the word truth . 
" What is more true than anything else ? ? 
To swim is true , and to sink is true . 
One is not more true than the other . 
One can not speak anymore of being , one must speak only of the mess . 
When Heidegger and Sartre speak of a contrast between being and existence , they may be right , I do n't know , but their language is too philosophical for me . 
I am not a philosopher . 
One can only speak of what is in front of him , and that now is simply the mess " . 
Then he began to speak about the tension in art between the mess and form . 
Until recently , art has withstood the pressure of chaotic things . 
It has held them at bay . 
It realized that to admit them was to jeopardize form . 
" How could the mess be admitted , because it appears to be the very opposite of form and therefore destructive of the very thing that art holds itself to be " ? ? 
But now we can keep it out no longer , because we have come into a time when " it invades our experience at every moment . 
It is there and it must be allowed in " . 
I granted this might be so , but found the result to be even more attention to form than was the case previously . 
And why not ? ? 
How , I asked , could chaos be admitted to chaos ? ? 
Would not that be the end of thinking and the end of art ? ? 
If we look at recent art we find it preoccupied with form . 
Beckett 's own work is an example . 
Plays more highly formalized than " Waiting For Godot " , " Endgame " , and " Krapp 's Last Tape " would be hard to find . 
" What I am saying does not mean that there will henceforth be no form in art . 
It only means that there will be new form , and that this form will be of such a type that it admits the chaos and does not try to say that the chaos is really something else . 
The form and the chaos remain separate . 
The latter is not reduced to the former . 
That is why the form itself becomes a preoccupation , because it exists as a problem separate from the material it accommodates . 
To find a form that accommodates the mess , that is the task of the artist now " . 
Yet , I responded , could not similar things be said about the art of the past ? ? 
Is it not characteristic of the greatest art that it confronts us with something we can not clarify , demanding that the viewer respond to it in his own never-predictable way ? ? 
What is the history of criticism but the history of men attempting to make sense of the manifold elements in art that will not allow themselves to be reduced to a single philosophy or a single aesthetic theory ? ? 
Is n't all art ambiguous ? ? 
" Not this " , he said , and gestured toward the Madeleine . 
The classical lines of the church which Napoleon thought of as a Temple of Glory , dominated all the scene where we sat . 
The Boulevard De La Madeleine , the Boulevard Malesherbes , and the Rue Royale ran to it with graceful flattery , bearing tidings of the Age of Reason . 
" Not this . 
This is clear . 
This does not allow the mystery to invade us . 
With classical art , all is settled . 
But it is different at Chartres . 
There is the unexplainable , and there art raises questions that it does not attempt to answer " . 
I asked about the battle between life and death in his plays . 
Didi and Gogo hover on the edge of suicide ; ; Hamm 's world is death and Clov may or may not get out of it to join the living child outside . 
Is this life-death question a part of the chaos ? ? 
" Yes . 
If life and death did not both present themselves to us , there would be no inscrutability . 
If there were only darkness , all would be clear . 
It is because there is not only darkness but also light that our situation becomes inexplicable . 
Take Augustine 's doctrine of grace given and grace withheld : have you pondered the dramatic qualities in this theology ? ? 
Two thieves are crucified with Christ , one saved and the other damned . 
How can we make sense of this division ? ? 
In classical drama , such problems do not arise . 
The destiny of Racine 's Phedre is sealed from the beginning : she will proceed into the dark . 
As she goes , she herself will be illuminated . 
At the beginning of the play she has partial illumination and at the end she has complete illumination , but there has been no question but that she moves toward the dark . 
That is the play . 
Within this notion clarity is possible , but for us who are neither Greek nor Jansenist there is not such clarity . 
The question would also be removed if we believed in the contrary -- total salvation . 
But where we have both dark and light we have also the inexplicable . 
The key word in my plays is ' perhaps ' " . 
Given a theological lead , I asked what he thinks about those who find a religious significance to his plays . 
" Well , really there is none at all . 
I have no religious feeling . 
Once I had a religious emotion . 
It was at my first Communion . 
No more . 
My mother was deeply religious . 
So was my brother . 
He knelt down at his bed as long as he could kneel . 
My father had none . 
The family was Protestant , but for me it was only irksome and I let it go . 
My brother and mother got no value from their religion when they died . 
At the moment of crisis it had no more depth than an old school tie . 
Irish Catholicism is not attractive , but it is deeper . 
When you pass a church on an Irish bus , all the hands flurry in the sign of the cross . 
One day the dogs of Ireland will do that too and perhaps also the pigs " . 
But do the plays deal with the same facets of experience religion must also deal with ? ? 
" Yes , for they deal with distress . 
Some people object to this in my writing . 
At a party an English intellectual -- so-called -- asked me why I write always about distress . 
As if it were perverse to do so ! ! 
He wanted to know if my father had beaten me or my mother had run away from home to give me an unhappy childhood . 
I told him no , that I had had a very happy childhood . 
Then he thought me more perverse than ever . 
I left the party as soon as possible and got into a taxi . 
On the glass partition between me and the driver were three signs : one asked for help for the blind , another help for orphans , and the third for relief for the war refugees . 
One does not have to look for distress . 
It is screaming at you even in the taxis of London " . 
Lunch was over , and we walked back to the hotel with the light and dark of Paris screaming at us . 
The personal quality of Samuel Beckett is similar to qualities I had found in the plays . 
He says nothing that compresses experience within a closed pattern . 
" Perhaps " stands in place of commitment . 
At the same time , he is plainly sympathetic , clearly friendly . 
If there were only the mess , all would be clear ; ; but there is also compassion . 
As a Christian , I know I do not stand where Beckett stands , but I do see much of what he sees . 
As a writer on the theater , I have paid close attention to the plays . 
Harold Clurman is right to say that " Waiting For Godot " is a reflection ( he calls it a distorted reflection ) " of the impasse and disarray of Europe 's present politics , ethic , and common way of life " . 
Yet it is not only Europe the play refers to . 
" Waiting For Godot " sells even better in America than in France . 
The consciousness it mirrors may have come earlier to Europe than to America , but it is the consciousness that most " mature " societies arrive at when their successes in technological and economic systematization propel them into a time of examining the not-strictly-practical ends of culture . 
America is now joining Europe in this " mature " phase of development . 
Whether any of us remain in it long will depend on what happens as a result of the technological and economic revolutions now going on in the countries of Asia and Africa , and also of course on how long the cold war remains cold . 
