I feel obliged to describe this cubbyhole . 
It had a single porcelain stall and but one cabinet for the chairing of the bards . 
It was here that the terror-stricken Dennis Moon played an unrehearsed role during the children 's party . 
A much larger room , adjacent to the lavatory , served as a passageway to and from the skimpy toilet . 
That unused room was large enough for -- well , say an elephant could get into it and , as a matter of fact , an elephant did . 
Something occurred on the morning of the children 's party which may illustrate the kind of trouble our restricted toilet facilities caused us . 
It so happened that sports writer Arthur Robinson got out of the hospital that morning after promising his doctor that he be back in an hour or two to continue his convalescence . 
Arthur Robinson traveled with the baseball clubs as staff correspondent for the American . 
He was ghost writer for Babe Ruth , whose main talent for literary composition was the signing of his autograph . 
Robbie was a war veteran with battle-shattered knees . 
He arrived on crutches at the Newspaper Club with one of his great pals , Oliver Herford , artist , author , and foe of stupidity . 
Mr. Herford 's appearance was that of a frustrated gnome . 
He seemed timid ( at first , ) wore nose glasses from which a black ribbon dangled , and was no bigger than a jockey . 
Robinson asked Herford to escort him to the club 's lavatory before they sat down for a highball and a game of cards . 
In the jakes , after Robbie and his crutches were properly stowed , Mr. Herford went to the adjoining facility . 
He had barely assumed his stance there when a fat fellow charged through the doorway . 
Without any regard for rest-room protocol , the hulking stranger almost knocked Herford off his pins . 
The artist-author said nothing , but stood to one side . 
He waited a long time . 
Nothing was said , nothing accomplished . 
The unrelieved stranger eventually turned away from the place of his -- shall we dare say his Waterloo ? ? 
-- to go to the door . 
Mr. Herford touched the fat man 's arm . 
" Pardon me , sir . 
May I say that you have just demonstrated the truth of an old proverb -- the younger Pliny 's , if memory serves me -- which , translated freely from the archaic Latin , says , ' The more haste , the less peed ' " . 
Governor Alfred E. Smith was the official host at the children 's party . 
United States Senator Royal S. Copeland was wearing the robes of Santa Claus and a great white beard ; ; the Honorable Robert Wagner , Sr. , at that time a justice of the New York Supreme Court , was on the reception committee . 
I was in charge of the arrangements -- which were soon enough disarranged . 
I had had difficulties from the very first day . 
When , in my enthusiasm , I proposed the party , my city editor ( who disliked the club and many of its members ) tried to block my participation in the gala event . 
Even earlier than that he had resented the fact that I had been chosen to edit the club 's Reporter . 
City editor Victor Watson of the New York American was a man of brooding suspicions and mysterious shifts of mood . 
Mr. Hearst 's telegraphic code word for Victor Watson was " fatboy " . 
The staff saw in him the qualities of a Don Cossack , hence , as mentioned before , his nickname " the Hetman " . 
The Hetman 's physical aspects were not those of a savage rider of the steppes . 
Indeed , he looked more like a well-fleshed lay brother of the Hospice of St. Bernard . 
Nor were his manners barbaric . 
He had a purring voice and poker player 's immobility of features which somehow conveyed the feeling that he knew where all the bodies were buried . 
He was the son of a Scottish father and an American Jewish mother , long widowed , with whom he lived in a comfortable home in Flushing . 
He had worked in the newspaper business since he was nineteen years old , always for the Hearst service . 
From the very first he regarded himself as Mr. Hearst 's disciple , defender , and afterward his prime minister , self-ordained . 
It was said that the Hetman plotted to take over the entire Hearst newspaper empire one day by means of various coups : the destruction of editors who tried to halt his course , the unfrocking of publishers whose mistakes of judgment might be magnified in secret reports to Mr. Hearst . 
Whatever the Hetman 's ambitions , his colleagues were kept ill at ease . 
Among the outstanding members of the Hearst cabinet whom he successfully opposed for a time were the great Arthur Brisbane , Bradford Merrill , S.S. Carvalho , and Colonel Van Hamm . 
He also disliked Runyon , for no good reason other than the fact that the Demon 's talent was so marked as to put him well beyond the Hetman 's say-so or his supervision . 
Runyon , for his part , had a contemptuous regard for Mr. Watson . 
" He 's a wrong-o " , said Runyon , " and I would n't trust him as far as I could throw the Statue of Liberty " . 
Arthur " Bugs " Baer wrote to me just recently , " Vic wanted to die in harness , with his head towards the wagon . 
He supported his mother and his brother , who afterwards committed suicide . 
Watson told me that his brother always sent roses to his mother , blossoms bought with Vic 's allowance to him . 
' And would you believe it ' , Vic added , ' she likes him better than she does me . 
Why ' " ? ? 
About the only time the Hetman seemed excited was when one of his own pet ideas was born . 
Then he would get to his feet , as though rising in honor of his own remarkable powers , and say almost invariably , " Gentlemen , this is an amazing story ! ! 
It 's bigger than the Armistice " . 
Some of the Hetman 's " ideas " were dream-ridden , vaguely imparted , and at times preposterous . 
One day he assigned me to lay bare a " plot " by the Duponts to supply munitions to a wholly fictitious revolution he said was about to occur in Cuba . 
He said that his information was so secret that he would not be able to confide in me the origin of his pipeline tip . 
" I can tell you this much " , he said . 
It 's bigger than the Armistice " . 
I worked for a day on this plainly ridiculous assignment and consulted several of my own well-informed sources . 
Then I spent the next two days at the baseball park and at Jack Doyle 's pool parlors . 
When I returned to make my report , the Hetman did not remember having sent me on the secret mission . 
He was busy , he said , in having someone submit to a monkey-gland operation . 
And I was to go to work on that odd matter . 
I shall tell of it later on . 
The Hetman had a strong liking for a story , any story which was to be had by means of much sleuthing or by roundabout methods . 
Most of my stories were obtained by simply seeking out the person who could give me the facts , and not as a rule by playing clever tricks . 
One day I tired of following the Hetman 's advice of " shadowing " and of the " ring-around-the-rosie " approach to a report that Enrico Caruso had pinched a lady 's hip while visiting the Central Park monkey house . 
I explained my state of mind to artist Winsor McCay and to " Bugs " Baer . 
Mr. Baer obtained a supply of crepe hair and spirit-gum from an actor at the Friars . 
We fashioned beards , put them on , and reported to the Hetman at the city desk . 
Mr. Baer had an auburn beard , like Longfellow 's . 
Mr. McCay had on a sort of Emperor Maximilian beard and mustache . 
As for myself , I had on an enormous black " muff " . 
This , together with a derby hat and horn-rim eyeglasses , gave me the appearance of a Russian nihilist . 
" We are ready for your next mysterious assignment " , said Mr. Baer to the Hetman . 
" Where to , sir " ? ? 
Mr. Watson did not have much humor in his make-up , but he managed a mirthless smile . 
Just then a reporter telephoned in from the Bronx to give the rewrite desk an account of a murder . 
The Hetman told me to take the story over the phone and to write it . 
While I was sitting at one of the rewrite telephones with my derby and my great beard , Arthur Brisbane whizzed in with some editorial copy in his hand . 
He paused for a moment to look at me , then went on to the city desk to deliver his " Today " column . 
I thought it expedient to take off my derby , my glasses , and the beard ; ; and also to change telephones . 
I managed to do this by the time the great A.B. returned to the place where he last had seen the fierce nihilist . 
He stood there staring with disbelief at the vacant desk . 
Then he wrinkled his huge brow and went slowly out of the room . 
He had a somewhat goggle-eyed expression . 
He had been " seeing things " . 
The Hetman 's " ideas " for news stories or editorial campaigns were by no means always fruitless or lacking in merit . 
He campaigned successfully for the riddance of " Death Avenue " and also brought about the ending of pollution of metropolitan beaches by sewage . 
He exposed the bucket-shop racket with the able assistance of two excellent reporters , Nat Ferber and Carl Helm . 
In the conduct of these and many other campaigns , the Hetman proved to be a much abler journalist than his critics allowed . 
It seems to me now , in a long backward glance , that many of the Hetman 's conceits and odd actions -- together with his grim posture when brandishing the hatchet in the name of Mr. Hearst -- were keyed with the tragedy which was to close over him one day . 
Alone , rejected on every hand , divorced , and in financial trouble , he leaped from an eleventh-floor window of the Abbey Hotel in 1937 . 
One finds it difficult to pass censure on the lonely figure who waited for days for a saving word from his zealously served idol , W.R. Hearst . 
That word was withheld when the need of it seemed the measure of his despair . 
The unfinished note , written in pencil upon the back of a used envelope , and addressed to the coroner , makes one wonder about many things : " God forgive me for everything . 
I can not " Much to Damon Runyon 's amazement , as well as my own , I got along splendidly with the Hetman ; ; that is , until I became an editor , hence , in his eyes , a rival . 
Not long after Colonel Van Hamm had foisted me on the Watson staff I received a salary raise and a contract on the Hetman 's recommendation . 
During the next years he gave me the second of the five contracts I would sign with the Hearst Service . 
It was a somewhat unusual thing for a reporter to have a contract in those days before the epidemic of syndicated columnists . 
I would like to believe that my ability warranted this advancement . 
Somehow I think that Watson paid more attention to me than he otherwise might have because his foe , Colonel Van Hamm , would n't touch me with a ten-foot blue pencil . 
I remember one day when Mr. Hearst ( and I never knew why he liked me , either ) sent the Hetman a telegram : " Please find some more reporters like that young man from Denver " . 
Watson showed this wire to Colonel Van Hamm . 
The colonel grunted , then made a remark which might be construed in either of two ways . 
" Do n't bother to look any further . 
We already have the only one of its kind " . 
The Hetman did have friends , but they were mostly outside the newspaper profession . 
Sergeant Mike Donaldson , Congressional Medal of Honor soldier , was one of them . 
Dr. Menas S. Gregory was another . 
I used to go with Watson to call on the eminent neurologist at his apartment , to sit among the doctor 's excellent collection of statues , paintings , and books and drink Oriental coffee while Watson seemed to thaw out and become almost affable . 
There was one time , however , when his face clouded and he suddenly blurted , " Why did my brother commit suicide " ? ? 
I can not remember Dr. Gregory 's reply , if , indeed , he made one . 
