In recollection he has said : " Natural or man-made objects kept coming into my head , but I would suppress them sternly " . 
Moreover , he organized the movement of his forms , within his rigorously shaped space , into highly complex equilibriums ; ; and used gradations of color value as well as sharply contrasting elementary colors . 
The worthy Mondrian , seeing these pictures , said in a tone of kindly reproof : " But you are really an artist of the naturalistic tradition " ! ! 
Helion did not realize it at the time , but it was true . 
His " monumental " abstraction , made up of smooth , metallic " non-objects " acting upon each other with great tension , won Helion much acclaim during the 'thirties . 
The play of novel lighting effects also entered into these compositions , whose controlled power and varied activity made them well worth meditating . 
As Helion 's work showed more and more nostalgia for the world of man and nature , the pure abstractionists expressed some disapproval ; ; but Leger , Arp , Lipchitz and Alexander Calder , at the time , gave him their blessing . 
His canvases nowadays bore titles frankly declaring them to be " Figures In Space " , or " Blue Figure " , or " Pink Figure " ; ; and they had ( vaguely ) heads and feet . 
Exhibited in shows in London in 1935 , and in New York the following year , the new , more elaborated abstracts were much favored in the circles of the modernists as three-dimentional dramas of great intellectual coherence . 
At this period the thirty-year old Helion was ranked " as one of the mature leaders of the modern movement " , according to Herbert Read , " and in the direct line of descent from Cezanne , Seurat , Gris and Leger " . 
In America , Meyer Schapiro observed that , unlike the Mondrian school , Helion " sought a return path to the fullness of nature within the framework of abstract art " . 
It is notable that at this time he was writing with admiration of Cimabue 's and Poussin 's way of filling space . 
Abstract art was still the right path for him ; ; but , he held , instead of continuing as an " art of reduction " , it must grow , must make a place for the contributions of the Raphaels and Poussins as well as for those of the early cubists and Mondrian . 
Later Helion wrote of this phase : " For years I built for myself a subtle instrument of relationships -- colors and forms without a name . 
I played on it my secret songs , unexplained , passionate and peaceful " . 
But his own work was evolving further . 
The extreme limitations he sensed in all current abstract art made that seem to him increasingly arid and cold . 
He was engaged in constant experiments that searched for new directions . 
Where would it all lead ? ? 
He himself did not know , as he said in 1935 . 
But he was " afraid of the future -- he would in fact welcome a way back to social integration , a functional art of some kind " . 
During the 1920 's the Abstractionists , the German Bauhaus group of industrial designers , and the new architects all had the dream of some well ordered utopia , or welfare state , in which their neat and logical constructions might find their proper place . 
But whereas the postwar American abstractionists seem to Helion to be determined to " escape " from the real world , or simply to rebel against it , the ordered abstractions which he and his associates of the 1930 's were painting embodied the hope of " improving " things . 
" We were possessed by visions of a new civilization to come , very pure and elevated " , he has said , " in fact some ideal form of socialism such as we had dreamed of since the war of 1914-1918 " . 
Instead of this the 1930 's witnessed a tragic economic depression , the rise of Fascist dictators in Europe , the wasting Civil War in Spain . 
Very much the political man , Helion felt himself deeply affected by the increasingly pessimistic atmosphere of France and all Europe , whose foundations seemed to him more and more shaky . 
In 1936 he decided to migrate to America . 
The Rooseveltian America was a haven of liberalism and progress and seemed to him to constitute the last best hope for civilization . 
Helion also hoped that America 's mastery of technology and industrial efficiency would be accompanied by the production of new and beautiful art works . 
" I arrived in the United States with the idea of establishing myself there more or less permanently and finding inspiration for new compositions " . 
In New York he was well received by what was then only a small brave band of non-figurative artists , including Alexander Calder , George K.L. Morris , De Kooning , Holty and a few others . 
After a year in a studio on Sheridan Square , having married an American girl who was a native of Virginia , Helion moved to a village in the Blue Ridge mountains , where he produced some of the most imposing of his abstract canvases . 
The darkening world scene , at the time of the Munich Pact , continued to trouble his mind even in his remote Virginia studio . 
" Fear possessed me , and the certainty of war " , he has related . 
" I truly smelled blood , death , heaps of corpses everywhere " . 
In haste he labored to finish some last abstract paintings : a three-panel frieze , with a flying figure and a fallen figure ; ; a " Double-Figure " , which went to the Chicago Art Institute , and is considered by him the most successful of his abstracts ; ; and in early 1939 , a " Fallen Figure " of very ominous character , which concluded his abstract phase . 
" I knew I was carrying on with abstraction to its very end -- for me " , he said of the two years ' output in Virginia . 
With those paintings of big constructions crashing down , he felt he could stop . 
They were , in effect his last testament to non-objective art . 
He had taken out first papers for American citizenship ; ; but after war came to Europe , he decided to return to France , arriving there in January , 1940 . 
" I hated the war " , he said , " but thought I ought to go because I was , perhaps , one of those who had n't done enough to prevent it " . 
In June , 1940 , Sergeant Helion , with a company of reserve troops waiting to go into battle , was sketching the hills south of the Loire River , when the war suddenly rolled in upon him . 
Its first apparition was a long , gloomy column of refugees riding in farm wagons , or pushing prams . 
His company then carried out a confused retreating movement until it was surrounded by the Germans , a few days before France capitulated . 
After a sort of death march during four days without food , Helion and his comrades were shipped by cattle-car to a labor camp at an estate farm in East Germany . 
A year later they were removed to a Stalag in the harbor of Stettin . 
At the time of his capture Helion had on his person a sketchbook he had bought at Woolworth 's in New York . 
When he was stripped , deloused and numbered by his guards , his much-thumbed sketchbook was seized and thrown on a pile of prisoners ' goods to be confiscated . 
" It was then I knew that they were making war against Man , the individual within ! ! 
-- who questioned things when given orders " . 
At Stettin the university-educated artist , who had studied German , was chosen to serve as interpreter and clerk in the office of the Stalag commander . 
In secret he also acted as a member of the prisoners ' Central Committee , which plotted sabotage , planned a few escapes , and maintained a hidden control over the wretched French slave-laborers . 
In the Stalag , Helion came to know and love his comrades , most of them plain folk , who , in their extremity , showed true courage and ran great risks to help each other . 
How much they esteemed him is shown by the fact that their underground committee selected him as one of the few who would be helped to escape . 
In the prison camp 's Black Market civilian clothes were quietly bought and forged papers were devised for him ; ; during long weeks the plan for his flight was rehearsed . 
Every morning contingents of prisoners would be sent out to labor in nearby factories . 
One evening , while a volley-ball game was being played in the yard among the prisoners remaining there , a simulated melee was staged -- just as the gates were opened to admit other prisoners returning from work . 
As Helion wrote afterward : " Their sentry followed . 
Four hands were stretched toward me by my comrades behind me . 
Marquet held my briefcase ; ; Finot held a wallet with my money and papers ; ; Moineau and David held nothing but their fingers . 
They felt rough and kind and warm . 
At this moment the volley-ball hit the ground . 
Duclos ran toward Desprez with fists raised . 
The guards all rushed up to intervene " Shedding his prison cloak , Helion shot through the gates , now clad in civilian garments and with the passport of a Flemish worker . 
Riding trains , hitching hikes on trucks across Germany , slipping through guarded frontiers with the help of secret guides , he eventually reached Vichy France , and , by the winter of 1943 , was back in Virginia . 
He wrote : " To escape from a prison camp required a very special state of mind ; ; not only loathing of captivity , but a faith , a hope that is even stronger . 
I left behind me brave men , whom captivity had robbed of all hope . 
They too loved their families , longed for their villages : yet lacked the faith that drove one to dare the fearful chance of escape " . 
It was a time of revelations for him . 
Even the most rational of men , under great stress , may be transported by a new faith and behave like mystics . 
Helion knew that he owed his freedom as much to the self-sacrifice of his fellow-men in Arbeitskommando 13 , , Stettin , as to his own fierce will and love of life . 
After that , he declared , " to return to freedom was to fall to one 's knees before the real world and adore it " . 
In prison he had been able to sketch nothing but figures from life , his guards , his companions in misery . 
Now all his desires centered on " rediscovering and singing of the prosaic and yet beautiful world of men and objects so long barred from me by a barbed wire fence " . 
And , he added : " During the many months in prison camp , all abstract images vanished from my mind " . 
Before leaving for America , he happened to see his old friend Jean Arp and confided to him his new resolutions . 
Arp protested : " But it is impossible ! ! 
Everything in the way of representation has already been done by the old masters " . 
Helion , however , clung to the belief that " in escaping from the Stalag I had also escaped from Abstraction " . 
While convalescing in his Virginia home he wrote a book recording his prison experiences and escape , entitled : They Shall Not Have Me Published originally in ( Helion 's ) English by Dutton & Co. of New York , in 1943 , the book was received by the press as a work of astonishing literary power and one of the most realistic accounts of World War 2 , from the French side . 
It was very widely read , too ; ; and the author , who seemed the embodiment of France 's rising spirit of resistance to her conquerors , was much complimented for his daring military action . 
But when he showed his new figurative pictures to his artist friends of the abstract camp , they paid him no compliments and drew long faces . 
Between 1944 and 1947 Helion had a series of one-man shows -- at the Paul Rosenberg Gallery in New York and in Paris -- of his new realistic pictures . 
They reincarnated the figures of human beings banished from his canvases since the 1920 's . 
These new pictures focussed on the familiar and commonplace objects that he had heard the men in his prison camp talking about as the things they missed most , hence associated with the sense of lost freedom : the cafe at the corner , the newspaper kiosk , the girls in doorways and windows along the street , the golden-crusted French bread they lacked , the cigarettes denied them . 
One of the pictures was of a man with hat drawn over his face ceremoniously lighting a cigarette ; ; others were of men doffing their hats to each other , carrying umbrellas with pomp , reading newspapers , or simply showing loaves of bread spread out . 
