Sentiment . 
Tension management and communication of sentiment are the processes involved in the functioning of the element of sentiment or feeling . 
One of the devices for tension management is preferential mating . 
The preferential mating of this particular population has been analyzed in a separate study . 
The relative geographical isolation of the Brandywine population makes for a limited choice in mating . 
It would seem necessary that members of this population provide support for one another since it is not provided by the larger society . 
The supportive relations can apparently be achieved in geographical and social isolation . 
The newlyweds building homes on the same land with either set of parents , and the almost exclusive use of members of the population as sponsors for baptisms and weddings illustrate this supportive relationship . 
As Loomis remarks , " In the internal pattern the chief reason for interacting is to communicate liking , friendship , and love among those who stand in supporting relations to one another and corresponding negative sentiments to those who stand in antagonistic relations " . 
Achieving . 
Maintenance of the status quo might seem to be the appropriate goal or objective of this population today . 
Yet , the object of the element of achieving through the process of goal attaining for this population appears to have been changed by circumstances brought about by the war . 
Prior to World War 2 , there was a higher percentage of endogamous marriages than after World War 2 . 
Norms . 
The norms , as elements , refer to " all criteria for judging the character or conduct of both individual and group actions in any social system " . 
The process of evaluation assigns varying positive and negative priorities or values to elements . 
The elements and processes become evident in a study of mate selection in this population . 
From the evidence " it may be conjectured that core - core marriages are the preferred unions for core males and females ; ; core - marginal marriages still belong in the category of permissive unions ; ; and core - Negro marriages are proscribed for core members " . 
Status-roles . 
The element of status-roles and associated processes have not been sufficiently investigated for this population to permit any type of conjectures about them . 
Power . 
There is some indication from a limited number of interviews with members of the population that the element of power , primarily the voluntary influence of non-authoritative power , has been exerted on actors in the system , particularly in regard to mate selection . 
This would seem to vary from family to family , depending somewhat on the core or marginal " status " of that family . 
Again , size of the group may have some influence on the strength of group controls . 
Ranking . 
Interviews with members of the Brandywine population were attempted in order to discover the ranking of the various families in the population . 
The large majority of the interviewees placed core families in the upper positions . 
Loomis considers ranking a product of the evaluation process . 
" The standing or rank of an actor in a given social system is determined by the evaluation placed upon the actor and his acts in accordance with the norms and standards of the system " . 
Despite the increasing rate of exogamous marriages , the population has been able to sustain , at least to some degree , the consciousness of its intermediate status in society . 
To some extent the system can be considered a Gemeinschaft in which " social-role occupancies are determined by birth , by attributes such as sex or caste , which are biologically or socially immutable " . 
The adherence of many in the population to the Indian background in their pedigree , and emphasis upon the fact that their ancestors had never been slaves , becomes of prime interest in determining how far these elements promote the self-image of the intermediate status of the group in society . 
Sanctions . 
The negative sanctions applied to core - Negro marriages for core members act as indicators of expected adherence to group norms . 
However , because of Church laws , lately more stringently enforced , which forbid the marriage of cousins closely related consanguineously , a means of facilitating the goal of in-group relations may be that of recourse to illegitimate unions . 
A cursory survey of available material indicates a high rate of illegitimate births occurring to parents who have a close consanguineous relationship . 
Subsystems The comprehensive or master processes activate all or some of the elements within the social system and subsystems . 
Within the larger social system are the structural and functional subsystems . 
The structural subsystem , consisting of relatively stable inter-relationships among its parts , includes : 1 . 
Subgroups of various types , interconnected by relational norms . 
2 . 
Roles of various types , within the larger system and within the subgroups 3 . 
Regulative norms governing subgroups and roles . 
4 . 
Cultural values . 
In the study of marriage patterns for this group , consanguinity produces the structural system -- a system of affinities -- which , in turn , maintains the system of consanguinity . 
Subgroups of various types have been found within this system . 
Each family line can be considered a substructure . 
There seems to be an implied cultural value attached to the fact of core status within the group . 
Additionally , the proscription of core - Negro marriages for core families , discussed above , would seem to act as a regulative norm governing subgroups and roles . 
The scope of this study does not provide for the study of roles of various types within the larger system or within the subgroups . 
However , it can not be presumed , informal though the structure of the population seems , that there are not well-defined roles within the system . 
The present study relates to the theory of functional systems . 
It is hypothesized that fertility is a function of the social system when the population as a whole is considered and a function of the subsystems when the two-fold division of core families and marginal families is considered . 
The four functional problems of a social system are , to some extent , solved by the subsystems within this population . 
By means of geographical isolation and high fertility rates , inbreeding can be fostered and the pattern of isolation from the greater society maintained . 
In order to attain the goal of group solidarity and to relieve tension , the high fertility rate provides more group members for mate selection , and the clustering of members in groups fosters acceptance of group controls . 
To maintain their intermediate position in the larger society , it is not only necessary that members of this population be " visible " , but that their numbers be great enough to be recognized as a separate , distinct grouping or system in society . 
As mentioned above , where families are concentrated in larger numbers , group controls seem strongest and most effective . 
Adaptation to the social and non-social environment through the economy has been met to a degree through a type of occupational segregation . 
This provides the necessary contact with the larger society , while supporting a type of control over members in terms of social contacts . 
Integration " has to do with the inter-relation of parts " . 
The problem of solidarity and morale again involves the concept of values . 
The values placed by the Brandywine population , upon maintaining a certain homogeneity , a certain separate racial identity , and therefore a certain separate social status , are important for the morale of the system . 
Since morale is closely related to pattern maintenance and integration , the higher the morale and solidarity , the better the system can solve the problems of the system . 
In this respect it would seem that the greater the social distance between the Brandywine population and the white and Negro populations within the same general locality , the greater the possibility for higher morale and solidarity within the Brandywine population . 
It is conceived that one of the means to attain this social distance is that of physical and social isolation . 
In turn , higher fertility rates for this population provide a means of increasing the numerical quantity of the population , allowing for the possibility of greater stability and unity . 
The population can thereby replenish itself and actually grow larger . 
Master processes Of particular utility in the analysis of the development , persistence , and change of social systems has been the use of the master or comprehensive processes . 
Loomis considers six such processes in his paradigm . 
1 . 
Communication 2 . 
Boundary maintenance 3 . 
Systemic linkage 4 . 
Socialization 5 . 
Social control 6 . 
Institutionalization Though undoubtedly all six processes are operative within the whole social system and its subsystems , two processes that are of crucial importance to this study will be singled out for particular emphasis . 
Communication . 
In discussing the process of communication , Loomis defines it as " the process by which information , decisions , and directives are transmitted among actors and the ways in which knowledge , opinions , and attitudes are formed , or modified by interaction " . 
Communication may be facilitated by means of the high visibility within the larger community . 
Intense interaction is easier where segregated living and occupational segregation mark off a group from the rest of the community , as in the case of this population . 
However , the factor of physical isolation is not a static situation . 
Although the Brandywine population is still predominantly rural , " there are indications of a consistent and a statistically significant trend away from the older and relatively isolated rural communities . 
Urbanization appears to be an important factor in the disintegration of this group . 
This conclusion is , however , an over-simplification . 
A more realistic analysis must take into account the fact that Brandywine people in the urban-fringe area are , in general , less segregated locally than group members in rural areas . 
In the urban area , in other words , they , unlike some urban ethnic groups , do not concentrate in ghetto colonies . 
Group pressures toward conformity are slight or non-existent , and deviant behavior in mate selection incurs few if any social sanctions . 
In such a setting social contacts and associations are likely to be heterogamous , resulting in a change of values and , almost necessarily , in mate selection behavior . 
To the extent that urban life contributes to the breakdown of the group patterns of residential isolation , to that extent it contributes directly to increased exogamy " . 
Social control . 
The process of social control is operative insofar as sanctions play a part in the individual 's behavior , as well as the group 's behavior . 
By means of this social control , deviance is either eliminated or somehow made compatible with the function of the social group . 
Examples from this population indicate that deviance seems to be sanctioned by ostracism from the group . 
Socialization . 
There is an oral tradition among the members of the population in regard to the origin and subsequent separate status of the group in the larger society . 
Confused and divided though this tradition may be , it is an important part of the social and cultural heritage of the group , and acts as a means of socialization , particularly for members of the rural community . 
The fact of Indian ancestry and " free " status during the days of slavery , are important distinctions made by members of the group . 
Boundary maintenance . 
" Culturally induced social cohesion resulting from common norms and values internalized by members of the group " is operative in the boundary maintenance of the group as well as in the process of socialization . 
The process of boundary maintenance identifies and preserves the social system or subsystems , and the characteristic interaction is maintained . 
As the threat of encroachment on the system increases , the " probability of applied boundary maintenance mechanisms increases " . 
The fertility rate pattern would seem to be a function , though a latent one , of the process of maintaining the boundary . 
" Increased boundary maintenance may be achieved , for example , by assigning a higher primacy or evaluation to activities characteristic of the external pattern . 
" The external pattern or external system can be considered as " group behavior that enables the group to survive in its environment . 
" Boundary maintenance for this group would seem to be primarily social , as is the preference for endogamy . 
It is also expressed in the proscription against deviants in the matter of endogamy , particularly in rural areas . 
By their pattern of endogamy and exogamy , the core families and the marginal families show distinct limits to the intergroup contact they maintain . 
Systemic linkage . 
Where boundary maintenance describes the boundaries or limits of the group , systemic linkage is defined " as the process whereby one or more of the elements of at least two social systems is articulated in such a manner that the two systems in some ways and on some occasions may be viewed as a single unit . 
