A gyro-stabilized platform system , using restrained gyros , is well suited for automatic leveling because of the characteristics of the gyro-platform-servo combination . 
The restrained gyro-stabilized platform with reasonable response characteristics operates with an approximate equation of motion , neglecting transient effects , as follows : A[fj] where U is a torque applied about the output axis of the controlling gyro . 
The platform angle \*\* yf is the angle about which the gyro is controlling . 
This is normally termed the gyro input axis , 90-degrees away from the gyro output or \*\* yj axis . 
The gyro angular momentum is defined by H . 
Thus if the gyro and platform-controller combination maintains the platform with zero angular deviation about the \*\* yf axis , the system can be rotated with an angular velocity A[fj] if a torque is supplied to the gyro output axis A[fj] . 
It is assumed that the gyros are designed with electrical torquers so that a torque can be applied about their output axes . 
In the system shown in Fig. 7-1 , the accelerometer output is amplified and the resulting voltage is applied to the gyro output-axis torquer . 
This torque causes the entire system to rotate about the \*\* yf axis , since the response to A[fj] . 
If the polarities are correct , the platform rotates in such a direction as to reduce the accelerometer output to zero . 
As the accelerometer output is decreasing , the torque applied to the gyro output axis decreases and , therefore , the rate decreases . 
Finally , when the accelerometer output is zero , the entire system remains stationary , and the platform is , by definition , leveled . 
A mathematical block diagram for the leveling system is shown in Fig. 7-2 . 
The platform is initially off level by the angle A[fj] . 
The angle generated by the platform servo \*\* yf multiplied by G is the effective acceleration acting on the accelerometer . 
A[fj] is the scale factor of the accelerometer ( A[fj] ) . 
The voltage A[fj] is amplified by A[fj] and applied to the gyro torquer with scale factor A[fj] . 
Finally , the gyro-stabilized platform characteristic is represented by A[fj] . 
The system as indicated in Fig. 7-2 is fundamental and simple because the transient effects of both the platform servo and the accelerometer have been neglected . 
With these factors included , an upper limit is placed on the allowable loop gain by stability considerations . 
In this type of system , a high loop gain is desirable because it provides a fast response time . 
When the frequency response characteristics of practical components are considered , their effect on stability does not present the most serious limit on the system loop gain . 
The time required for the system to reach a level position is approximately inversely proportional to the servo loop gain . 
In addition , the cutoff frequency for input accelerations is approximately proportional to the servo loop gain ; ; i.e. , high loop gain causes the system to respond to horizontal components of accelerations . 
This problem usually determines the lower limit of loop gain rather than response time . 
It must be noticed in Fig. 7-1 that the accelerometer responds to any input acceleration . 
The equation relating input acceleration to output platform angle is A[fj] . 
In practice , the preflight leveling process takes place with the system mounted in the airframe . 
When the system is arranged for automatic leveling , the platform angles respond to any horizontal components of acceleration acting on the accelerometers . 
There are many such components of acceleration present due to the effect of wind gusts , engine noise , turbulence around the vehicle , etc. . One of the greatest problems associated with automatic leveling is establishing a true level in the presence of high-level acceleration noise . 
One solution to the problem is to operate with a low loop gain and to include low-pass filters . 
This technique causes the system to respond only to low frequency acceleration components such as the platform tilt . 
Since a lower loop gain and low-pass filtering increases the response time , a practical compromise must be reached . 
One of the most desirable solutions is achieved by the use of a non-linear amplifier for A[fj] . 
The amplifier is designed so that its gain is large for accelerometer signals above a certain threshold level . 
Below this level , the amplifier gain A[fj] is proportional and is of small value , in order to provide adequate noise filtering . 
The effect is that the platform returns from an off-level position at a rapid rate until it is nearly level , at which point the platform is controlled by a proportional servo with low enough frequency response so that the noise has little effect on the leveling process . 
When the system is on automatic leveling , the gyro drift is canceled by the output of the leveling system ( amplifier A[fj] ) . 
The platform actually tilts off level so that the accelerometer output , when amplified by A[fj] , will supply the correct current to the gyro torquer to cancel the gyro drift . 
The amount of platform dip required depends upon the scale factors of the system . 
7-3 . 
Practical leveling considerations . 
The automatic leveling system described in this section is readily adaptable to a gyro-stabilized platform consisting of three integrating gyros . 
The system requires some switching of flight equipment circuits . 
However , the leveling operation can be maintained and controlled remotely with no mechanical or optical contact with the platform . 
This leveling system will hold the platform on-level , automatically , as long as the system is actuated . 
A useful by-product of this system is that the information necessary to set the gyro drift biases is available from the currents necessary to hold the system in level . 
The leveling process can be accomplished manually , and the results are as satisfactory as those obtained with automatic equipment . 
The process consists in turning the platform manually until the outputs of both accelerometers are zero . 
The turning is accomplished by applying voltage to the gyro torquers described above . 
In brief , the human replaces amplifier A[fj] in Figs. 7-1 and 7-2 . 
Manual leveling requires an appropriate display of the accelerometer outputs . 
If high accuracy is required in preflight leveling , it is usually necessary to integrate or doubly integrate the accelerometer outputs ( this also minimizes the noise problem ) . 
With integration , the effect of a small acceleration ( or small platform tilt angle ) can be seen after a time . 
However , skill is required on the part of an operator to level a platform to any degree of accuracy . 
Also , it requires more time as compared to the automatic approach . 
Manual leveling is inconvenient if the platform must be maintained accurately level for any prolonged period of time . 
The operator must continually supply the correct amount of turning current to the gyro torquers so that the effect of gyro drift is canceled . 
This process is especially difficult since gyro drifting is typically random . 
7-4 . 
Platform heading . 
Platform heading consists of orienting the sensitive axis of the accelerometers parallel to the desired coordinate system of the navigator . 
In simpler terms , it amounts to pointing the platform in the proper direction . 
For purely inertial navigators , two techniques are available to accomplish the platform heading : Use of external or surveying equipment to establish proper heading ; ; Use of the characteristics of the platform components for an indication of true heading . 
The choice of the heading technique is dependent upon the accuracy requirements , field conditions , and the time available to accomplish the heading . 
7-5 . 
External determination of heading -- surveying technique . 
With the gyro-stabilized platform leveled , it can be headed in the proper direction by using surveying techniques . 
The platform accelerometers must be slightly modified for this procedure . 
Before the accelerometers are mounted on the platform , the direction of their sensitive axis must be accurately determined . 
A mirror is mounted on each accelerometer so that the plane of the mirror is perpendicular to the sensitive axis of the unit . 
Transit . 
A precision transit is set up so that it is aligned with respect to true north . 
This can be done to a high degree of accuracy by existing surveying techniques . 
With the transit set up , a mirror on one of the accelerometers is sighted and the platform is turned until it is aligned . 
The sighting procedure includes the use of a fixture for the transit to project a beam of light , which is darkened by crossed hairs , on the accelerometer mirror . 
When the platform is aligned , the reflected image of the crossed hairs can be seen exactly superimposed upon the original crossed hairs . 
The images can easily be aligned with a high degree of accuracy . 
The platform is turned as required by supplying currents to the appropriate gyro torquers . 
Although this technique is simple and satisfactory , one practical difficulty does exist : the direction of true north must be known for each launch point . 
However , this difficulty is not too serious if it is realized that a surveying team can establish a true north base line with a few days ' work . 
In many installations , the inertial platform is raised off the ground a considerable height when it is mounted in the vehicle before flight . 
With this situation , it is difficult to sight in on the platform with surveying equipment . 
If the platform is not too high off the ground , a transit can be mounted on a stand to raise it up to the platform . 
Obviously , the heading accuracy is lessened by such techniques since errors are introduced because of motion of the stand . 
Autocollimator . 
The transit can be replaced by an autocollimator . 
This instrument provides an electrical signal proportional to the angular deviations of the platform and can be used to automatically hold the platform on true heading . 
The electrical signal from the autocollimator is amplified and supplied to the Z-gyro torquer . 
If the polarity is correct , the platform will turn until the heading error angle is zero . 
Information is also available from this autocollimator system to set the drift bias for the Z-axis gyro . 
If the Z gyro is drifting , a current generated by the autocollimator is delivered to the gyro torquer to cancel the drift . 
If the drift error is systematic , it can be canceled with a bias circuit which can be arranged and adjusted to supply the required compensating current . 
Electrical pickoffs . 
It is possible to locate an angular electrical pickoff , which will indicate the angular deviation between the true heading direction and the platform . 
Essentially , the stator or reference portion of the pickoff is established with respect to the true heading direction , and the platform is turned either manually or automatically until the angular electrical pickoff signal is reduced to zero . 
7-6 . 
Gyrocompass heading . 
Gyrocompass alignment is an automatic heading system which depends upon the characteristic of one gyro to establish true heading . 
For the case of a purely inertial autonavigator consisting of three restrained gyros , a coordinate system is used where the sensitive axis of the X accelerometer is parallel to the east-west direction at the base point , and the Y accelerometer sensitive axis is parallel to the north-south direction at the base point . 
The accelerometers are mounted rigidly on the platform . 
Thus , if one accelerometer is properly aligned , the other is also . 
The input axis of the appropriate gyros are parallel to the sensitive direction of the accelerometers . 
Figure 7-3 shows a platform system with the gyro vectors arranged as described above . 
The platform is leveled and properly headed , so that the X-gyro input axis is parallel to the east-west direction and the Y-gyro input axis is parallel to the north-south direction . 
The input axis of the X gyro , when pointing in the east-west direction , is always perpendicular to the spin axis of earth . 
If the platform is not properly headed , the X-gyro input axis will see a component of the earth 's rotation . 
The sensing of this rotation by the X gyro can be utilized to direct the platform into proper heading . 
In Fig. 7-4 , the input axis of the three-axis platform is shown at some point on the earth . 
The point is at a latitude \*\* yl , and the platform is at an error in heading east . 
The earth is spinning at an angular velocity \*\* zq equal to one revolution per 24 hr . 
. 
When the platform is level , \*\* ye is a rotation about the Z axis of the platform A[fj] . 
Since the earth is rotating and the unleveled gyro-stabilized platform is fixed with respect to a reference in space , an observer on the earth will see the platform rotating ( with respect to the earth ) . 
