With a sneer , the man spread his legs and , a third time , confronted them . 
Once more , Katie reared , and whinnied in fear . 
For a moment , boy and mount hung in midair . 
Stevie twisted and , frantically , commanded the mare to leap straight ahead . 
But the stranger was nimbler still . 
With a bold arm , he dared once more to obstruct them . 
Katie reared a third time , then , trembling , descended . 
The stranger leered . 
Seizing the bridle , he tugged with all his might and forced Katie to her knees . 
It was absurd . 
Stevie could feel himself toppling . 
He saw the ground coming up -- and the stranger 's head . 
With incredible ferocity , he brought his fists together and struck . 
The blow encountered silky hair and hard bone . 
The man uttered a weird cry , spun about , and collapsed in the sand . 
Katie scrambled to her feet , Stevie agilely retaining his seat . 
Again Katie reared , and now , wickedly , he compelled her to bring her hooves down again and again upon the sprawled figure of the stranger . 
He could feel his own feet , iron-shod , striking repeatedly until the body was limp . 
He gloated , and his lips slavered . 
He heard himself chortling . 
They rode around and around to trample the figure into the sand . 
Only the top of the head , with a spot bare and white as a clamshell , remained visible . 
Stevie was shouting triumphantly . 
A train hooted . 
Instantly , he chilled . 
They were pursuing him . 
He was frightened ; ; his fists clutched so tightly that his knuckles hurt . 
Then Katie stumbled , and again he was falling , falling ! ! 
" Stevie ! ! 
Stevie " ! ! 
His mother was nudging him , but he was still falling . 
His head hung over the boards of Katie 's stall ; ; before it was sprawled the mangled corpse of the bearded stranger . 
" Stevie , wake up now ! ! 
We 're nearly there " . 
He had been dreaming . 
He was safe in his Mama 's arms . 
The train had slowed . 
Houses winked as the cars rolled beside a little depot . 
" Po ' Chavis " ! ! 
The trainman called . 
He came by and repeated , " Po ' Chavis " ! ! 
Chapter 6 Bong ! ! 
Bong ! ! 
Startled him awake . 
The room vibrated as if a giant hand had rocked it . 
Bong ! ! 
A dull boom and a throbbing echo . 
The walls bulged , the floor trembled , the windowpanes rattled . 
He stared at the far morning , expecting a pendulum to swing across the horizon . 
Bong ! ! 
He raced to the window and yanked at the sash . 
Bong ! ! 
The wood was old , the paint alligatored . 
Bong ! ! 
A fresh breeze saluted him . 
Six o'clock ! ! 
He put his head out . 
There was the slate roof of the church ; ; ivy climbed the red brick walls like a green-scaled monster . 
The clock which had struck presented an innocent face . 
In the kitchen Mama was wiping the cupboards . 
" There 's a tower and a steeple on the church a million feet high . 
And the loudest clock in the whole world " ! ! 
" I know , Stephen " , she smiled . 
" They say that our steeple is one hundred and sixty-two feet high . 
The clock you heard strike -- it 's really the town clock -- was installed last April by Mrs. Shorter , on her birthday " . 
He dressed , and sped outdoors . 
He crossed Broome Street to Orange Square . 
The steeple leaned backward , while the church advanced like a headless creature in a long , shapeless coat . 
The spire seemed to hold up the sky . 
Port Jervis , basking in the foothills , was the city of God . 
The Dutch Reformed Church , with two steeples and its own school was on Main Street ; ; the Episcopal Church was one block down Sussex Street ; ; the Catholic Saint Mary 's Church , with an even taller steeple and a cross on top , stood on Ball Street . 
The Catholics had the largest cemetery , near the Neversink River where Main Street ran south ; ; Stevie whistled when he passed these alien grounds . 
God was everywhere , in the belfry , in the steeple , in the clouds , in the trees , and in the mountains hulking on the horizon . 
Somewhere , beyond , where shadows lurked , must be the yawning pit of which Papa preached and the dreadful Lake of Fire . 
So , walking in awe , he became familiar with God , who resided chiefly in Drew Centennial Church with its high steeple and clock . 
There was no church like Drew Church , no preacher like Papa , who was intimate with Him , and could consign sinners to hellfire . 
To know God he must follow in Papa 's footsteps . 
He was fortunate , and proud . 
The veterans , idling on their benches in the Square , beneath the soldiers ' monument , got to their feet when Papa approached : " Morning , Reverend " ! ! 
His being and His will -- Stevie could not divide God from his Papa -- illumined every parish face , turned the choir into a band of angels , and the pulpit into the tollgate to Heaven . 
" We have nine hundred and eleven members in our charge " , Mama announced , " and three hundred and eighty Sunday-school scholars " . 
When Papa went out to do God 's work , Stevie often accompanied him in the buggy , which was drawn by Violet , the new black mare . 
Although they journeyed westerly as far as Germantown , beyond the Erie roundhouse and the machine shop , and along the Delaware and Hudson Canal , and northward to Brooklyn , below Point Peter , he could see the church spire wherever he looked back . 
Sometimes they went south and rolled past the tollhouse -- " Afternoon , Reverend " ! ! 
-- and crossed the suspension bridge to Matamoras ; ; that was Pennsylvania . 
In the Delaware River , three long islands were overgrown with greening trees and underbrush . 
South of Laurel Grove Cemetery , and below the junction of the Neversink and the Delaware , was the Tri-State Rock , from which Stevie could spy New Jersey and Pennsylvania , as well as New York , simply by spinning around on his heel . 
On these excursions , Papa instructed him on man 's chief end , which was his duty to God and his own salvation . 
However , a boy 's lively eyes might rove . 
Where Cuddleback Brook purled into the Neversink was a magnificent swimming hole . 
Papa pointed a scornful finger at the splashing youth : " Idle recreation " ! ! 
Stevie saw no idols ; ; it troubled him that he could n't always see what Papa saw . 
He was torn between the excitement in the sun-inflamed waters and a little engine chugging northward on the Monticello Branch . 
" Where you been today " ? ? 
Ludie inquired every evening , pretending that he did not care . 
" He 'll make a preacher out of you " ! ! 
" No , he wo n't " ! ! 
Stevie flared . 
" Not me " ! ! 
" Somebody 's got to be a preacher in the family . 
He made a will and last testament before we left Paterson . 
I heard them ! ! 
Uncle and Aunt Howe were the witnesses " . 
" Will he die " ? ? 
" Everybody does " . 
Ludie could be hateful . 
To speak of Papa dying was a sin . 
It could never happen as long as God was alert and the Drew steeple stood guard with its peaked lance . 
Stevie was constantly slipping into the church . 
He pulled with all his strength at the heavy , brass-bound door , and shuffled along the wainscoted wall . 
The cold , mysterious presence of God was all around him . 
At the end of a shaft of light , the pews appeared to be broad stairs in a long dungeon . 
Far away , standing before a curtained window in the study room , was his father , hands tucked under his coattails , and staring into the dark church . 
The figure was wreathed in an extraordinary luminescence . 
The boy shuddered at the deathly pale countenance with its wrinkles and gray hair . 
Would Papa really die ? ? 
The mouth was thin-lipped and wide , the long cleft in the upper lip like a slide . 
When Papa 's slender fingers removed the spectacles , there were red indentations on the bridge of the strong nose . 
" It 's time you began to think on God , Stephen . 
Perhaps one day He will choose you as He chose me , long ago . 
Therefore , give Him your affection and store up His love for you . 
Open your heart to Him and pray , Stephen , pray ! ! 
For His mercy and His guidance to spare you from evil and eternal punishment in the Lake of Fire " . 
Stevie had heard these words many times , yet on each occasion they caused him to tremble . 
For he feared the Lake of Fire . 
He strove to think of God and His eternal wrath ; ; he must pray to be spared . 
Papa was disappointed that none of the brothers had heard the Call . 
Not George , Townley , or Ted , certainly not Ludie . 
Burt was at Hackettstown and Will at Albany Law School , where they surely could not hear it . 
Someday God would choose him . 
He would hear the Call and would run to tell Papa . 
The stern face would relax , the black-clad arms would embrace him , " My son " ! ! 
Yet how might he know the Call when it came ? ? 
Probably , as in Scriptures , a still , small voice would whisper . 
It would summon him once ; ; if he missed it , never again . 
What if it came when he was playing , or was asleep and dreaming ? ? 
He must not fail to hear it . 
He was Papa 's chosen ; ; therefore , nothing but good could happen to him , even in God 's wrathful storms . 
When the skies grew dark and thunder rolled across the valley , he was unafraid . 
Aggie might fly into a closet , shut the door and bury her head in the clothes ; ; he dared to wait for the lightning . 
Lightning could strike you blind if you were a sinner ! ! 
But he was good . 
He clenched his fists and faced the terror . 
Thunder crashed ; ; barrels tumbled down the mountainsides , and bounced and bounced till their own fury split them open . 
Lightning might strike the steeples of the other churches ; ; not of Drew Church . 
A flash illumined the trees as a crooked bolt twigged in several directions . 
Violet whinnied from the stable . 
He ran out into the downpour , sped across the yard and into the buggy room . 
" Do n't be afraid , Violet " ! ! 
He shouted , and was aghast at the echoes . 
" Do n't you be afraid " ! ! 
He would save her . 
If there was a fire or a flood he would save Mama first and Violet next . 
Drenched and shaking , he stood near the sweet-smelling stall and dared to pat her muzzle . 
" Do n't you be afraid , Violet " ! ! 
After the storm , the sky cleared blue and cool , and fragrant air swept the hills . 
When the sun came out , Stevie strode proudly into Orange Square , smiling like a landlord on industrious tenants . 
The fountain had brimmed over , the cannon were wet , the soldiers ' monument glistened . 
Even before the benches had dried , the Civil War veterans were straggling back to their places . 
The great spire shone as if the lightning had polished it . 
He jumped . 
The pointed shadow had nearly touched him . 
He trailed Ludie to the baseball game in the lot on Kingston Street near the Dutch Reformed . 
" Go on home " ! ! 
Ludie screeched at him . 
" Someone 'll tell Papa " ! ! 
No one told on Ludie , not even when he slipped live grasshoppers into the mite-box . 
Ludie did as he pleased . 
Ludie took his slingshot and climbed to the rooftop to shoot at crows . 
Ludie chewed roofer 's tar . 
Ludie had a cigar box full of marbles and shooters , and a Roman candle from last Fourth of July . 
Ludie hopped rides on freight cars , and was chased by Mr. Yankton , the railroad guard . 
He came home overheated , ran straight to the ice-chest , and gulped shivery cold water . 
Stevie envied him . 
That Ludie ! ! 
He , too , cocked his cap at a jaunty angle , jingled marbles in his pocket , and swaggered down Main Street . 
On the Christophers ' lawn , little girls in white pinafores were playing grownups at a tea party . 
A Newfoundland sat solemnly beside a doghouse half his size . 
Stevie yearned for a dog . 
He wondered whether God had a dog in the sky . 
He meandered down Pike Street , past the First National Bank with its green window shades . 
He crossed the tracks to Delaware House , where ladies in gay dresses and men in straw boaters and waxed mustaches crowded the verandah . 
A tall lady , with a ruffled collar very low on her bosom , turned insolent green eyes upon him . 
She was taller than Aggie . 
She was so beautiful with her rosy mouth and haughty air that she had to be wicked . 
Fiddles screeched ; ; a piano tinkled . 
" P. J . 
" -- as Ludie called the town -- was crowded with summer people who came to the mountains to escape the heat in the big cities . 
They stayed at hotels and boardinghouses , or at private homes . 
Rich people went to Delaware House , Opera House , American House or Fowler House . 
