Where their sharp edges seemed restless as sea waves thrusting themselves upward in angry motion , Papa-san sat glacier-like , his smooth solidity , his very immobility defying all the turmoil about him . 
" Our objective " , the colonel had said that day of the briefing , " is Papa-san " . 
There the objective sat , brooding over all . 
Gouge , burn , blast , insult it as they would , could anyone really take Papa-san ? ? 
Between the ponderous hulk and himself , in the valley over which Papa-san reigned , men had hidden high explosives , booby traps , and mines . 
The raped valley was a pregnant womb awaiting abortion . 
On the forward slope in front of his own post stretched two rows of barbed wire . 
At the slope 's base coils of concertina stretched out of eye range like a wild tangle of children 's hoops , stopped simultaneously , weirdly poised as if awaiting the magic of the child 's touch to start them all rolling again . 
Closer still , regular barricades of barbed wire hung on timber supports . 
Was it all vain labor ? ? 
Who would clean up the mess when the war was over ? ? 
Smiling at his quixotic thoughts , Warren turned back from the opening and lit a cigarette before sitting down . 
Tonight a group of men , tomorrow night he himself , would go out there somewhere and wait . 
If he were to go with White , he would be out there two days , not just listening in the dark at some point between here and Papa-san , but moving ever deeper into enemy land -- behind Papa-san -- itself . 
Was this what he had expected ? ? 
He had n't realized that there would be so much time to think , so many lulls . 
Somehow he had forgotten what he must have been told , that combat was an intermittent activity . 
Now he knew that the moment illuminated by the vision on the train would have to be approached . 
It could take place tomorrow night , or it might occur months from now . 
There was just too much time . 
Time to become afraid . 
White 's suggestion flattered , but he did not like the identity . 
He did not spill over with hatred for the enemy . 
He had n't even seen him yet Pressing his cigarette out in the earth , Warren walked to the slit and scanned the jagged hills . 
He saw no life , but still stood there for a time peering at the unlovely hills , his gaze continually returning to Papa-san . 
He had come here in order to test himself . 
While most of his beliefs were still unsettled , he knew that he did not believe in killing . 
Yet , he was here . 
He had come because he could not live out his life feeling that he had been a coward . 
There were ten men on the patrol which Sergeant Prevot led out that next night . 
The beaming ROK was carrying a thirty-caliber machine gun ; ; another man lugged the tripod and a box of ammunition . 
Warren and White each carried , in addition to their own weapons and ammo , a box of ammo for the ROK 's machine gun . 
Others carried extra clips for the Browning Automatic Rifle , which was in the hands of a little Mexican named Martinez . 
Prevot had briefed the two new men that afternoon . 
" We just sit quiet and wait " , Prevot had said . 
" Be sure the man nearest you is awake . 
If Joe does n't show up , we 'll all be back here at 0600 hours . 
Otherwise , we hold a reception . 
Then we pull out under our mortar and artillery cover , but nobody pulls out until I say so . 
Remember what I said about going out to get anybody left behind ? ? 
That still holds . 
We bring back all dead and wounded " . 
At 2130 hours they had passed through the barbed wire at the point of departure . 
Then began the journey through their own mine fields . 
Mines . 
Ours were kinder than theirs , some said . 
They set bouncing betties to jump and explode at testicle level while we more mercifully had them go off at the head . 
Mines . 
Big ones and little . 
The crude wooden boxes of the enemy , our nicely turned gray metal disks . 
But theirs defied the detectors . 
Mines . 
A foot misplaced , a leg missing . 
Mines . 
All sizes : big ones , some wired to set off a whole field , little ones , hand grenade size . 
Booby traps to fill the head with chunks of metal . 
Warren tried to shake off the jumble of his fears by looking at the sky . 
It was dark . 
Prevot had said that the searchlights would be bounced off the clouds at 2230 hours , " which gives us time to get settled in position " . 
Because they were new men and to be sure that they did n't get lost , Prevot had placed Warren and White in the center of the patrol as it filed out . 
His eyes now fixed on White 's solid figure , Warren could hear behind him the tread of another . 
He could also hear the stream which he had seen from his position . 
They were going to follow it for part of their journey . 
" It 's safe " , Prevot had said , " and it provides cover for our noise " . 
Soon they were picking their way along the edge of the stream which glowed in the night . 
On their right rose the embankment covered with brush and trees . 
If a branch extended out too far , each man held it back for the next , and if they met a low overhang , each warned the other . 
Thus , stealthily they advanced upstream ; ; then they turned to the right , climbed the embankment , and walked into the valley again . 
There was no cover here , only grass sighing against pant-legs . 
And with each sigh , like a whip in the hand of an expert , the grass stripped something from Warren . 
The gentle whir of each footstep left him more naked than before , until he felt his unprotected flesh tremble , chilled by each new sound . 
The shapes of the men ahead of him lacked solidity , as if the whip had stripped them of their very flesh . 
The dark forms moved like mourners on some nocturnal pilgrimage , their dirge unsung for want of vocal chords . 
The warped , broken trees in the valley assumed wraith-like shapes . 
Clumps of brush that they passed were so many enchained demons straining in anger to tear and gnaw on his bones . 
Looming over all , Papa-san leered down at him , threatening a hundred hidden malevolencies . 
Off in the distance a searchlight flashed on , its beam slashing the sky . 
The sharp ray was absorbed by a cloud , then reflected to the earth in a softer , diffused radiance . 
Somewhere over there another patrol had need of light . 
Warren thought of all the men out that night who , like himself , had left their protective ridge and -- fear working at their guts -- picked their way into the area beyond . 
From the east to the west coast of the Korean peninsula was a strip of land in which fear-filled men were at that same moment furtively crawling through the night , sitting in sweaty anticipation of any movement or sound , or shouting amidst confused rifle flashes and muzzle blasts . 
White 's arm went up and Warren raised his own . 
The patrol was stopping . 
Prevot came up . 
" Take that spot over there " , he whispered , pointing to a small clump of blackness . 
" Give me your machine gun ammo " . 
Warren handed him the metal box and Prevot quietly disappeared down the line . 
Lying in the grass behind the brush clump , Warren looked about . 
The others likewise had hidden themselves in the grass and the brush . 
Over his shoulder he could see Prevot with the machine gun crew . 
Even at this short distance they were only vague shapes , setting up the machine gun on a small knoll so that it could fire above the heads of the rest of the patrol . 
Warren eased his rifle 's safety off and gently , slowly sneaked another clip of ammunition from one of the cloth bandoleers that marked the upper part of his body with an A[fj] . 
This he placed within quick reach . 
The walk and his fears had served to overheat him and his sweaty armpits cooled at the touch of the night air . 
Although the armored vest fitted the upper part of his body snugly , he felt no security . 
Figures seemed to crouch in the surrounding dark ; ; in the distance he saw a band of men who seemed to advance and retreat even as he watched . 
Certain this menace was only imaginary , he yet stared in fascinated horror , his hand sticky against the stock of his weapon . 
He was aware of insistent inner beatings , as if prisoners within sought release from his rigid body . 
Above , the glowing ivory baton of their searchlight pointed at the clouds , diluting the valley 's dark to a pallid light . 
Then the figures which held his attention became a group of shattered trees , standing like the grotesques of a medieval damnation scene . 
Even so , he could not ease the tension of his body ; ; the rough surface of the earth itself seemed to resist every attempt on his part to relax . 
Sensing the unseen presence of the other men in the patrol , he felt mutely united to these nine near-strangers sharing this pinpoint of being with him . 
He sensed something precious in the perilous moment , something akin to the knowledge gained on his bicycle trip through the French countryside , a knowledge imprisoned in speechlessness . -- In France he had puzzled the meaning of the great stone monuments men had thrown up to the sky , and always as he wandered , he felt a stranger to their exultation . 
They were poems in a strange language , of which he could barely touch a meaning -- enough to make his being ache with the desire for the fullness he sensed there . 
Brittany , that stone-gray mystery through which he traveled for thirty days , sleeping in the barns of farmers or alongside roads , had worked some subtle change in him , he knew , and it was in Brittany that he had met Pierre . 
Pierre had no hands ; ; they had been severed at the wrists . 
With leather cups fitted in his handlebars , he steered his bicycle . 
He and Warren had traveled together for four days . 
They visited the shipyards at Brest and Pierre had to sign the register , vouching for the integrity of the visiting foreigner . 
He took the pen in his stumps and began to write . 
" Wait ! ! 
Wait " ! ! 
Cried the guard who ran from the hut to shout to other men standing about outside . 
They crowded the small room and peered over one another 's shoulders to watch the handless man write his name in the book . 
" C'est formidable " , they exclaimed . 
" Mais , oui . 
C'est merveilleux " . 
And then the questions came , eager , interested questions , and many compliments on his having overcome his infirmity . 
" Does n't it ever bother you " , Warren had asked , " to have people always asking you about your hands " ? ? 
" Oh , the French are a very curious people " , Pierre had laughed . 
" They are also honest seekers after truth . 
Now the English are painfully silent about my missing hands . 
They refuse to mention or to notice that they are not there . 
The Americans , like yourself , take the fact for granted , try to be helpful , but do n't ask questions . 
I 'm used to all three , but I think the French have the healthiest attitude " . 
That was the day that Pierre had told Warren about the Abbey of Solesmes . 
" You are looking tired and there you can rest . 
It will be good for you . 
I think , too " , he said , his dark eyes mischievous , " that you will find there some clue to the secret of the cathedrals about which you have spoken " . 
Within two weeks Warren was ringing the bell at the abbey gate . 
The monk who opened the door immediately calmed his worries about his reception : " I speak English " , the old man said , " but I do not hear it very well " . 
He smiled and stuck a large finger with white hairs sprouting on it into his ear as though that might help . 
Smiling at Warren 's protestations , the old monk took his grip from him and led him down a corridor to a small parlor . 
" Will you please wait in here . 
