Standing in the shelter of the tent -- a rejected hospital tent on which the rain now dripped , no longer drumming -- Adam watched his own hands touch the objects on the improvised counter of boards laid across two beer barrels . 
There was , of course , no real need to rearrange everything . 
A quarter inch this way or that for the hardbake , or the toffee , or the barley sugar , or the sardines , or the bitters , or the condensed milk , or the stationery , or the needles -- what could it mean ? ? 
Adam watched his own hands make the caressing , anxious movement that , when rain falls and nobody comes , and ruin draws close like a cat rubbing against the ankles , has been the ritual of stall vendors , forever . 
He recognized the gesture . 
He knew its meaning . 
He had seen a dry , old , yellowing hand reach out , with that painful solicitude , to touch , to rearrange , to shift aimlessly , some object worth a pfennig . 
Back in Bavaria he had seen that gesture , and at that sight his heart had always died within him . 
On such occasions he had not had the courage to look at the face above the hand , whatever face it might be . 
Now the face was his own . 
He wondered what expression , as he made that gesture , was on his face . 
He wondered if it wore the old anxiety , or the old , taut stoicism . 
But there was no need , he remembered , for his hand to reach out , for his face to show concern or stoicism . 
It was nothing to him if rain fell and nobody came . 
Then why was he assuming the role -- the gesture and the suffering ? ? 
What was he expiating ? ? 
Or was he now taking the role -- the gesture and the suffering -- because it was the only way to affirm his history and identity in the torpid , befogged loneliness of this land . 
This was Virginia . 
He looked out of the tent at the company street . 
The rain dripped on the freezing loblolly of the street . 
Beyond that misty gray of the rain , he saw the stretching hutment , low diminutive log cabins , chinked with mud , with doorways a man would have to crouch to get through , with roofs of tenting laid over boughs or boards from hardtack boxes , or fence rails , with cranky chimneys of sticks and dried mud . 
The chimney of the hut across from him was surmounted by a beef barrel with ends knocked out . 
In this heavy air , however , that device did not seem to help . 
The smoke from that chimney rose as sluggishly as smoke from any other , and hung as sadly in the drizzle , creeping back down along the sopping canvas of the roof . 
Over the door was a board with large , inept lettering : home sweet home . 
This was the hut of Simms Purdew , the hero . 
The men were huddled in those lairs . 
Adam knew the names of some . 
He knew the faces of all , hairy or shaven , old or young , fat or thin , suffering or hardened , sad or gay , good or bad . 
When they stood about his tent , chaffing each other , exchanging their obscenities , cursing command or weather , he had studied their faces . 
He had had the need to understand what life lurked behind the mask of flesh , behind the oath , the banter , the sadness . 
Once covertly looking at Simms Purdew , the only man in the world whom he hated , he had seen the heavy , slack , bestubbled jaw open and close to emit the cruel , obscene banter , and had seen the pale-blue eyes go watery with whisky and merriment , and suddenly he was not seeing the face of that vile creature . 
He was seeing , somehow , the face of a young boy , the boy Simms Purdew must once have been , a boy with sorrel hair , and blue eyes dancing with gaiety , and the boy mouth grinning trustfully among the freckles . 
In that moment of vision Adam heard the voice within himself saying : I must not hate him , I must not hate him or I shall die . 
His heart suddenly opened to joy . 
He thought that if once , only once , he could talk with Simms Purdew , something about his own life , and all life , would be clear and simple . 
If Simms Purdew would turn to him and say : " Adam , you know when I was a boy , it was a funny thing happened . 
Lemme tell you now " -- If only Simms Purdew could do that , whatever the thing he remembered and told . 
It would be a sign for the untellable , and he , Adam , would understand . 
Now , Adam , in the gray light of afternoon , stared across at the hut opposite his tent , and thought of Simms Purdew lying in there in the gloom , snoring on his bunk , with the fumes of whisky choking the air . 
He saw the sign above the door of the hut : home sweet home . 
He saw the figure of a man in a poncho coming up the company street , with an armful of wood . 
It was Pullen James , the campmate of Simms Purdew . 
He carried the wood , carried the water , did the cooking , cleaning and mending , and occasionally got a kick in the butt for his pains . 
Adam watched the moisture flow from the poncho . 
It gave the rubberized fabric a dull gleam , like metal . 
Pullen James humbly lowered his head , pushed aside the hardtack-box door of the hut , and was gone from sight . 
Adam stared at the door and remembered that Simms Purdew had been awarded the Medal of Honor for gallantry at Antietam . 
The street was again empty . 
The drizzle was slacking off now , but the light was grayer . 
With enormous interest , Adam watched his hands as they touched and shifted the objects on the board directly before him . 
Into the emptiness of the street , and his spirit , moved a form . 
The form was swathed in an army blanket , much patched , fastened at the neck with a cord . 
From under the shapeless huddle of blanket the feet moved in the mud . 
The feet wore army shoes , in obvious disrepair . 
The head was wrapped in a turban and on top of the turban rode a great hamper across which a piece of poncho had been flung . 
The gray face stared straight ahead in the drizzle . 
Moisture ran down the cheeks , gathered at the tip of the nose , and at the chin . 
The figure was close enough now for him to see the nose twitching to dislodge the drop clinging there . 
The figure stopped and one hand was perilously freed from the hamper to scratch the nose . 
Then the figure moved on . 
This was one of the Irish women who had built their own huts down near the river . 
They did washing . 
Adam recognized this one . 
He recognized her because she was the one who , in a winter twilight , on the edge of camp , had once stopped him and reached down her hand to touch his fly . 
" Slice o ' mutton , bhoy " ? ? 
She had queried in her soft guttural . 
" Slice o ' mutton " ? ? 
Her name was Mollie . 
They called her Mollie the Mutton , and laughed . 
Looking down the street after her , Adam saw that she had again stopped and again removed one hand from the basket . 
He could not make out , but he knew that again she was scratching her nose . 
Mollie the Mutton was scratching her nose . 
The words ran crazily in his head : Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain . 
Then the words fell into a pattern : " Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose , Scratching her nose in the rain . 
Mollie the Mutton is scratching her nose in the rain " . 
The pattern would not stop . 
It came again and again . 
He felt trapped in that pattern , in the repetition . 
Suddenly he thought he might weep . 
" What 's the matter with me " ? ? 
He demanded out loud . 
He looked wildly around , at the now empty street , at the mud , at the rain . 
" Oh , what 's the matter with me " ? ? 
He demanded . 
When he had stored his stock in the great oak chest , locked the two big hasps and secured the additional chain , tied the fly of the tent , and picked up the cash box , he moved up the darkening street . 
He would consign the cash box into the hands of Jed Hawksworth , then stand by while his employer checked the contents and the list of items sold . 
Then he -- Then what ? ? 
He did not know . 
His mind closed on that prospect , as though fog had descended to blot out a valley . 
Far off , in the dusk , he heard voices singing , muffled but strong . 
In one of the huts a group of men were huddled together , singing . 
He stopped . 
He strained to hear . 
He heard the words : " Rock of Ages , cleft for me , Let me hide myself in Thee ! ! 
Let the water and the blood From Thy riven side flow ! ! 
" He thought : I am a Jew from Bavaria . 
He was standing there , he thought , in Virginia , in the thickening dusk , in a costly greatcoat that had belonged to another Jew . 
That other Jew , a young man too , had left that greatcoat behind , in a rich house , and marched away . 
He had crossed the river which now , beyond the woods yonder , was sliding darkly under the mist . 
He had plunged into the dark woods beyond . 
He had died there . 
What had that man , that other young Jew , felt as he stood in the twilight and heard other men , far away , singing together ? ? 
Adam thought of the hutments , regiment after regiment , row after row , the thousands of huts , stretching away into the night . 
He thought of the men , the nameless thousands , huddling in them . 
He thought of Simms Purdew snoring on his bunk while Pullen James crouched by the hearth , skirmishing an undershirt for lice , and a wet log sizzled . 
He thought of Simms Purdew , who once had risen at the edge of a cornfield , a maniacal scream on his lips , and swung a clubbed musket like a flail to beat down the swirl of Rebel bayonets about him . 
He thought of Simms Purdew rising up , fearless in glory . 
He felt the sweetness of pity flood through him , veining his very flesh . 
Those men , lying in the huts , they did not know . 
They did not know who they were or know their own worth . 
In the pity for them his loneliness was gone . 
Then he thought of Aaron Blaustein standing in his rich house saying : " God is tired of taking the blame . 
He is going to let History take the blame for a while " . 
He thought of the old man laughing under the glitter of the great chandelier . 
He thought : Only in my heart can I make the world hang together . 
Adam rose from the crouch necessary to enter the hut . 
He saw Mose squatting by the hearth , breaking up hardtack into a pan . 
A pot was boiling on the coals . 
" Gon na give Ole Buckra all his money " ? ? 
Mose asked softly . 
Adam nodded . 
" Yeah " , Mose murmured , " yeah . 
And look what he done give us " . 
Adam looked at the pot . 
" What is it " ? ? 
He asked . 
" Chicken " , Mose said , and theatrically licked his lips . 
" Gre't big fat chicken , yeah " . 
He licked his lips again . 
Then : " yeah . 
A chicken with six tits and a tail lak a corkscrew . 
And it squealed for slop " . 
Mose giggled . 
" Fooled you , huh ? ? 
It is the same ole same , tell me its name . 
It is sowbelly with tits on . 
It is salt po'k . 
It is salt po'k and skippers . 
That po'k , it was so full of skippers it would jump and run and not come when you say , hoo-pig . 
Had to put my foot on it to hole it down while I cut it up fer the lob-scuse " . 
He dumped the pan of crumbled hardtack into the boiling pot of lobscouse . 
" Good ole lob-scuse " , he mumbled , and stirred the pot . 
He stopped stirring and looked over his shoulder . 
" Know what Ole Buckra et tonight " ? ? 
He demanded . 
" Know what I had to fix fer Ole Him " ? ? 
Adam shook his head . 
" Chicken " , Mose said . 
