She concluded by asking him to name another hour should this one be inconvenient . 
The fish took the bait . 
He replied that he could not imagine what importance there might be in thus meeting with a stranger , but -- joy of joys , he would be at home at the hour mentioned . 
But when she called he had thought better of the matter and decided not to involve himself in a new entanglement . 
She was told by the manservant who opened the door that his lordship was engaged on work from which he had left strict orders he was not to be disturbed . 
Claire was bitterly disappointed but determined not to let the rebuff daunt her purpose . 
She wrote again and now , abandoning for the moment the theme of love , she asked for help in the matter of her career . 
She could act and she could write . 
His lordship was concerned in the management of Drury Lane but , if there were no opportunities there , would he read and criticize her novel ? ? 
At last he consented to meet her , and following that brief interview Claire wrote him a yet more remarkable proposal : Have you any objection to the following plan ? ? 
On Thursday evening we may go out of town together by some stage or mail about the distance of ten or twelve miles . 
There we shall be free and unknown ; ; we can return the following morning She concluded by asking for a brief interview -- " to settle with you where " -- and she threw in a tribute to his " gentle manners " and " the wild originality of your countenance " . 
She opened his reply with trembling fingers he agreed ! ! 
And he would see her that evening . 
Victory at last ! ! 
At their meeting he told her not to bother about " where " -- he would attend to that . 
There was one of the new forte-pianos in the room and , as Claire rose to go , he asked her to sing him one song before she left . 
She sang him Scott 's charming ballad " Rosabelle " , which was the vogue of the moment . 
She had never sung better . 
" Your voice is delightful " , he approved with a warm smile . 
" Tomorrow will be a new experience -- I have never before made love to a nightingale . 
There have been cooing doves , chattering magpies , thieving jackdaws , a proud peacock , a silly goose , and a harpy eagle -- whom I was silly enough to mate with and who is now busy tearing at my vitals " . 
And so they went , he choosing of all places an inn near Medmenham Abbey , scene a generation ago of the obscene orgies of the Hellfire Club . 
He regaled Claire with an account of the mock mass performed by the cassocked bloods , which he had had at firsthand from old Bud Dodington , one of the leaders of the so-called " Order " . 
Each wore the monkish scourge at his waist but this , it seems , was not employed for self-flagellation . 
Naked girls danced in the chancel of the Abbey , the youngest and seemingly the most innocent being chosen to read a sermon filled with veiled depravities . 
The jaded amorist conjured up pictures of the blasphemous rites with relish . 
Alas , all that belonged to the age of " Devil Dashwood " and " Wicked Wilkes " , abbot and beadsman of the Order ! ! 
The casual seduction of a seventeen-year-old bluestocking seemed tame by comparison . 
They passed close by the turn to Bishopsgate . 
A scant half mile away Shelley and Mary were doubtless sitting on their diminutive terrace , the air about them scented with stock , and listening to the nightingale who had nested in the big lime tree at the foot of the garden . 
Charming and peaceful -- but what were charm and peace compared to high adventure ? ? 
Alone with the fabulous Byron ! ! 
How many women had longed for the privilege that was hers . 
How was she to behave , Claire wondered . 
To be passive , to be girlishly shy was palpably absurd . 
She was the pursuer as clearly as was Venus in Shakespeare 's poem . 
And while her Adonis did not suffer from inexperience , satiety might well be an equal handicap . 
No , she would not pretend modesty , but neither must she be crudely bold . 
Mystery -- that was the thing . 
In the bedroom she would insist on darkness . 
With his club foot he might well be grateful . 
At the inn , which was situated close to a broad weir , Byron was greeted by the landlord with obsequious deference and addressed as " milord " . 
The place was evidently a familiar haunt and Claire wondered what other illicit loves had been celebrated in the comfortable rooms to which they were shown . 
The fire in the sitting room was lighted . 
" What about the bedroom " ? ? 
Byron inquired . 
" Seems to me last time I was here the grate bellowed out smoke as it might have been preparing us for hell " . 
" We found some owls had built a nest in the chimney , milord , but I promise you you 'll never have trouble of that sort again " . 
So , not only had he been here before , but it seemed he might well come again . 
Claire felt suddenly small and cheap , heroine of a trivial episode in the voluminous history of Don Juan . 
A cold supper was ordered and a bottle of port . 
When Napoleon 's ship had borne him to Elba , French wines had started to cross the Channel , the first shipments in a dozen war-ridden years , but the supplies had not yet reached rural hostelries where the sweet wines of the Spanish peninsula still ruled . 
As they waited for supper they sat by the fire , glasses in hand , while Byron philosophized as much for his own entertainment as hers . 
" Sex is overpriced " , he said . 
" The great Greek tragedies are concerned with man against Fate , not man against man for the prize of a woman 's body . 
So do n't see yourself as a heroine or fancy this little adventure is an event of major importance " . 
" The gods seemed to think sex pretty important " , she rebutted . 
" Mars and Venus , Bacchus and Ariadne , Jupiter and Io , Byron and the nymph of the owl 's nest . 
That would be Minerva , I suppose . 
Was n't the owl her symbol " ? ? 
Byron laughed . 
" So you know something of the classics , do you " ? ? 
" Tell me about Minerva , how she behaved , what she did to please you " . 
" I 'll tell you nothing . 
I do n't ask you who 't- is you 're being unfaithful to , husband or lover . 
Frankly , I do n't care " . 
For a moment she thought of answering with the truth but she knew there were men who shied away from virginity , who demanded some degree of education in body as well as mind . 
" Very well " , she said , " I 'll not catechize you . 
What matter the others so long as I have my place in history " . 
She was striking the right note . 
No man ever had a better opinion of himself and indeed , with one so favored , flattery could hardly seem overdone . 
Brains and beauty , high position in both the social and intellectual worlds , athlete , fabled lover -- if ever the world was any man 's oyster it was his . 
The light supper over , Claire went to him and , slipping an arm about his shoulder , sat on his knee . 
He drew her close and , hand on cheek , turned her face to his . 
Her lips , moist and parted , spoke his name . 
" Byron " ! ! 
His hand went to her shoulder and pushed aside the knotted scarf that surmounted the striped poplin gown ; ; then , to better purpose , he took hold of the knot and with dextrous fingers , untied it . 
The bodice beneath was buttoned and , withdrawing his lips from hers , he set her upright on his knee and started to undo it , unhurriedly as if she were a child . 
But , kindled by his kiss , his caressing hand , her desire was aflame . 
She sprang up and went swiftly to the bedroom . 
Lord Byron poured himself another glass of wine and held it up to the candle flame admiring the rich color . 
He drank slowly with due appreciation . 
It was an excellent vintage . 
He rose and went to the bedroom . 
Pausing in the doorway he said : " The form of the human female , unlike her mind and her spirit , is the most challenging loveliness in all nature " . 
When Claire returned to Bishopsgate she longed to tell them she had become Byron 's mistress . 
By odd coincidence , on the evening of her return Shelley chose to read Parisina , which was the latest of the titled poet 's successes . 
As he declaimed the sonorous measures , it was as much as Claire could do to restrain herself from bursting out with her dramatic tidings . 
" Although it is not the best of which he is capable " , said Shelley as he closed the book , " it is still poetry of a high order " . 
" If he would only leave the East " , said Mary . 
" I am tired of sultans and scimitars " . 
" The hero of his next poem is Napoleon Bonaparte " , said Claire , with slightly overdone carelessness . 
" How do you know that " ? ? 
Demanded Mary . 
" I was told it on good authority " , Claire answered darkly . 
" I must n't tell , I must n't tell " , she repeated to herself . 
" I promised him I would n't " . 
Chapter 9 winter came , and with it Mary 's baby -- a boy as she had wished . 
William , he was called , in honor of the man who was at once Shelley 's pensioner and his most bitter detractor . 
With a pardonable irony Shelley wrote to the father who had publicly disowned his daughter : " Fanny and Mrs. Godwin will probably be glad to hear that Mary has safely recovered from a very favorable confinement , and that her child is well " . 
At the same time another child -- this one of Shelley 's brain -- was given to the world : Alastor , a poem of pervading beauty in which the reader may gaze into the still depths of a fine mind 's musings . 
Alastor was published only to be savagely attacked , contemptuously ignored . 
Shelley sent a copy to Southey , a former friend , and another to Godwin . 
Neither acknowledged the gift . 
Only Mary 's praise sustained him in his disappointment . 
She understood completely . 
Not a thought nor a cadence was missed in her summary of appreciation . 
" You have made the labor worth while " , he said to her , smiling . 
" And in the future , since I write for a public of one , I can save the poor publishers from wasting their money " . 
" A public of one " , Mary echoed reprovingly . 
" How can you say such a thing ? ? 
There will be thousands who will thrill to the loveliness of Alastor . 
There are some even now . 
What about that dear , clever Mr. Thynne ? ? 
I am sure he is in raptures " . 
" Poor Mr. Thynne , he always has to be trotted out for my encouragement " . 
" There are other Mr. Thynnes . 
Not everyone is bewitched by Byron 's caliphs and harem beauties " . 
Mary 's supercritical attitude toward Byron had nothing to do with his moral disrepute . 
She was resentful of his easy success as compared with Shelley 's failure . 
The same month that Alastor was published , Murray sold twenty thousand copies of The Siege Of Corinth , a slovenly bit of Byronism that even Shelley 's generosity rebelled at . 
The lordly poet was at low-water mark . 
The careless writing was in keeping with his mood of savage discontent . 
On all sides doors were being slammed in his face . 
The previous scandals , gaily diverting as they were , had only served to increase his popularity . 
Now , under the impact of his wife 's disclosures , he was brought suddenly to the realization that there was a limit to tolerance , however brilliant , however far-famed the offender might be . 
He tried defiance and openly flaunted his devotion to his half sister , but he soon saw , as did she , that this course if persisted in would involve them in a common ruin . 
For the moment there was no woman in his life , and it was this vacuum that had given Claire her opportunity . 
But the liaison successfully started in the last days of autumn was now languishing . 
Byron , since the separation from his wife had been living in a smallish house in Piccadilly Terrace . 
He refused to bring Claire to it even as an occasional visitor , claiming that his every move was watched by spies of the Milbankes . 
