That summer the gambling houses were closed , despite the threats of Pierre Ameaux , a gaming-card manufacturer . 
Dancing was no longer permitted in the streets . 
The Bordel and other places of prostitution were emptied . 
The slit breeches had to go . 
Drunkenness was no longer tolerated . 
In defiance , a chinless reprobate , Jake Camaret , marched down the aisle in St. Peter 's one Sunday morning , followed by one of the women from the Bordel , whose dress and walk plainly showed the lack of any shame . 
Plunking themselves down on the front bench , they turned to smirk at those around them . 
John 's first impulse was to denounce their blasphemy . 
But the thought occurred that God would want this opportunity used to tell them about Him . 
Calmly he opened the Bible and read of the woman at the well . 
He finished the worship service as if there had been no brazen attempt to dishonor God and man . 
The next morning , as the clock struck nine , he appeared at the Council meeting in the Town Hall and insisted that the couple would have to be punished if the Church was to be respected . 
" I have told you before , and I tell you again " , Monsieur Favre said rudely . 
" Stick to the preaching of the Gospel " ! ! 
John stiffened in anger . 
" That is the answer the ungodly will always make when the Church points its fingers at their sins . 
I say to you that the Church will ever decry evil " ! ! 
John 's reply was like a declaration of war . 
Monsieur Favre sat down in his high-backed stall , lips compressed , eyes glinting . 
Ablard Corne , a short man with a rotunda of stomach , rose . 
Every eye was on him as he began to speak . 
" What Master Calvin says is true . 
How can we have a good city unless we respect morality " ? ? 
Abel Poupin , a tall man with sunken cheeks and deep-set eyes , got to his feet . 
" We all know that Jake Camaret and the woman are brazenly living together . 
It would be well to show the populace how we deal with adulterers " . 
Philibert Berthelier , the son of the famous patriot , disagreed . 
" Do not listen to that Frenchman . 
He is throttling the liberty my father gave his life to win " ! ! 
John was quietly insistent . 
" There can be no compromise when souls are in jeopardy " . 
A week later the sentence of the Council was carried out : Jake Camaret and the woman were marched naked through the streets past a mocking populace . 
Before them stalked the beadle , proclaiming as he went , " Thus the Council deals with those who break its laws -- adulterers , thieves , murderers , and lewd persons . 
Let evildoers contemplate their ways , and let every man beware " ! ! 
John 's thoughts raced painfully into the past as he read the letter he had just received from his sister Mary . 
Charles had died two weeks before , in early November , without being reconciled to the Church . 
The canons , in a body , had tried to force him on his deathbed to let them give him the last rites of the Church , but he had died still proclaiming salvation by faith . 
Burial had taken place at night in the ground at the public crossroads under the gibbet , so that his enemies could not find his body and have it dug up and burned . 
The Abbot of St. Eloi , Claude De Mommor , had been a good friend , but not even he thought Charles deserved burial in hallowed ground . 
John closed his eyes and saw once again the little niche in his mother 's bedroom , where she had knelt to tell the good Virgin of her needs . 
The blue-draped Virgin was still there , but no one knelt before her now . 
Not even Varnessa ; ; she , too , prayed only to God . 
For an instant John longed for the sound of the bells of Noyon-la-Sainte , the touch of his mother 's hand , the lilt of Charles 's voice in the square raftered rooms , his father 's bass tones rumbling to the canons , and the sight of the beloved bishop . 
But he had to follow the light . 
Unless God expected a man to believe the Holy Scriptures , why had He given them to him ? ? 
The white-clad trees stood like specters in the February night . 
Snow buried the streets and covered the slanting rooftops , as John trudged toward St. Peter 's . 
A carriage crunched by , its dim lights filtering through the gloom . 
The sharp wind slapped at him and his feet felt like ice as the snow penetrated the holes of his shoes , his only ones , now patched with folded parchment . 
The city had recently given him a small salary , but it was not enough to supply even necessities . 
As he neared the square , a round figure muffled in a long , black cape whisked by . 
John recognized Ablard Corne and called out a greeting . 
How grateful he was to such men ! ! 
There were several on the Council who tried to live like Christians . 
Despite their efforts , the problems seemed to grow graver all the time . 
Quickening his steps , John entered the vast church and climbed the tower steps to the bells . 
Underneath the big one , in the silent moonlight , lay a dead pigeon , and on the smaller bell , the Clemence , two gray and white birds slept huddled together in the cold winter air . 
John leaned upon the stone balustrade . 
He brushed back his black hair , shoving it under his pastor 's cap to keep it from blowing in his eyes . 
Below the moon-splashed world rolled away to insurmountable white peaks ; ; above him the deep blue sky glittered with stars . 
He stood very still , his arms at his sides , staring up at the heavens , then down at the blinking lights below . 
" How long , my Lord ? ? 
How long ? ? 
I have never asked for an easy task , but I am weary of the strife " . 
Sleep was difficult these days . 
Indigestion plagued him . 
Severe headaches were frequent . 
Loneliness tore through him like a physical pain whenever he thought of Peter Robert , Nerien , Nicholas Cop , Martin Bucer , and even the compromising Louis Du Tillet . 
An occasional traveler from Italy brought news of Peter Robert , who was now distributing his Bible among the Waldensian peasants . 
Letters came regularly from Nerien , Nicholas , and Martin . 
He had Anthony and William to confide in and consult . 
But William continued to find a bitter joy in smashing images and tearing down symbols sacred to the Old Church . 
John found it difficult , but he held him in check . 
And Anthony was busy most of the time courting this girl and that . 
His easy good looks made him a favorite with the ladies . 
Geneva , instead of becoming the City of God , as John had dreamed , had in the two years since he had been there , continued to be a godless place where all manner of vice flourished . 
Refugees poured in , signing the Confession and rules in order to remain , and then disregarding them . 
Dice rolled , prostitutes plied their trade , thieves stole , murderers stabbed , and the ungodly blasphemed . 
Catholics who were truly Christians longed for the simple penance of days gone by . 
Libertines recalled the heroism of the past and demanded : " Are we going to allow the Protestant Pope , Master Calvin , to curtail our liberty ? ? 
Why , oh why , does n't he stick to preaching the Gospel , instead of meddling in civic affairs , politics , economics , and social issues that are no concern of the Church " ? ? 
And John 's reply was always the same : " Anything that affects souls is the concern of the Church ! ! 
We will have righteousness " ! ! 
Tears burned behind his eyes as he prayed and meditated tonight . 
Unless the confusion cleared , he would not be coming here much longer . 
Monsieur Favre 's threat would become a reality , for he continued to proclaim loudly that the city must rid itself of " that Frenchman " . 
The slow tapping of a cane on the stone steps coming up to the tower interrupted his reverie . 
Faint at first , the tapping grew until it sounded loud against the wind . 
Eli Corault ! ! 
John thought . 
What is he doing here at this hour ? ? 
He started down the steps to meet the near-blind preacher , who had been one of the early Gospelers in Paris . 
" John ? ? 
Is that you ? ? 
I came to warn you of a plot " ! ! 
John stood above him , his face ashen . 
What now ? ? 
Slowly , like a man grown old , he took Eli 's hand and led him below to the tower study , guiding him to a chair beside the little hearth where a fire still burned . 
" Plot " ? ? 
John asked tiredly . 
" Monsieur Favre just paid me a visit . 
I went to your rooms , and Anthony told me you were here . 
Two Anabaptists , Caroli and Benoit , are to challenge you and William to a debate before the Council . 
It is to be a trap . 
You know the law : if you lose the debate after accepting a challenge , you will be banished " ! ! 
" What will be the subject " ? ? 
" You are to be accused of Arianism to confuse the religious who remain loyal " . 
Anger and fear fused in John . 
Ever since the fourth century a controversy had raged over the person of Christ . 
Those who refused to believe that He was the eternal Son of God were termed Arianists . 
Peter Caroli had come to Geneva , saying that he had been a bishop of the Church of Rome and had been persecuted in Paris for his Reformed faith . 
He asked to be appointed a preacher . 
But Michael Sept had unmasked him , revealing he had never been a bishop , but was an Anabaptist , afraid to state his faith , because he knew John Calvin had written a book against their belief that the soul slept after death . 
So John had refused to agree to his appointment as a preacher , and now Caroli sought revenge . 
John sighed . 
" If William agrees , we should insist on a public debate " , he said at length . 
" There is more to the conspiracy . 
Bern demands that the Lord 's Supper be administered here as it used to be , with unleavened bread . 
Furthermore , Bern decrees that we must do as we are ordered by the Council , preach only the word of God and stop meddling in politics " ! ! 
" It was always the spirit with Christ ; ; matters such as leavened or unleavened bread are inconsequential . 
Geneva must remain a sovereign state . 
We will not yield to the demands of Bern " ! ! 
The firelight played over Eli 's flowing white locks and rugged features . 
" Monsieur Favre indicated that if I would co-operate , after you and William are banished , following the debate , I will be given a place of influence " . 
" What was your reply to that " ? ? 
" That I would rather be banished with two such Christians than be made the Chief Syndic " ! ! 
The following morning , as John entered the Place Molard on his way to visit a sick refugee , he had a premonition of danger . 
Then suddenly a group of men and dogs circled him . 
He wanted to run , but he knew that if he did , he would be lost . 
He stood very still , his heart thumping wildly . 
On the outskirts of the rabble the Camaret brothers and Gaspard Favre shook their fists . 
" Are you going to comply with the demands of Bern " ? ? 
The chinless Jake called . 
" Arianist " ! ! 
A rowdy with a big blob of a nose roared . 
" Heretic " ! ! 
John lifted his hand for silence . 
" Know this : the ministers will not yield to the demands of Bern " . 
His voice shook a little . 
Somebody heaved a stone . 
For an instant John was stunned . 
When he felt the side of his head , his fingers came away covered with blood . 
Before he could duck , another stone struck him . 
And another . 
" Let him be now " ! ! 
Pierre Ameaux , the gaming-card manufacturer said , his little pig eyes glaring . 
" We have taught him a lesson " . 
The crowd moved back and John started dizzily down the hill . 
Fists pummeled him as he staggered forward . 
Then he slipped and went down on his hands and knees in the melting snow . 
At once a bevy of dogs was snapping and snarling around him . 
One , more horrible than the rest , lunged , growling deep in his throat , his hair bristling . 
With great difficulty John clambered to his feet and started to run , sweat pouring down his face . 
