That 's what the man had said . 
Haney peered doubtfully at his drinking companion through bleary , tear-filled eyes . 
He had no ready answer , as much from surprise as from the fit of coughing . 
Was the man drunk or crazy or both ? ? 
But his new-found buddy had matched him drink for drink until he lost count , and the man 's eyes were still clear . 
The guy is off his rocker , Haney thought to himself , and looked away from those eyes . 
Eyes that were clear , but also bright with a strange intensity , a sort of cold fire burning behind them . 
Why had n't he noticed it before ? ? 
No , the man was not drunk He wondered how he got tied up with this stranger . 
But , of course , he remembered now . 
It was blurred , after two hours of steady drinking , but the occasion of it came back to him . 
The stranger , his head seemingly sunk in thought , started to cross the street against the light just as a huge moving van roared through the intersection . 
Brakes howled and a horn blared furiously , but the man would have been hit if Phil had n't called out to him a second before . 
His shout had been involuntary , something anybody might have done without thinking , on the spur of the moment . 
As a matter of fact , he would n't have cared at all if the guy had been hit . 
Actually , he regretted having opened his mouth when the truck came to a stop and the angry driver jumped down from the cab and walked back toward them . 
By then , the stranger was thanking Haney profusely and had one arm around his shoulders as if he were an old friend . 
So the driver started to curse at both of them as if they had been in a plot together to ruin his safe-driving record . 
Then the man he saved turned and looked squarely into the truck driver 's face , without saying a word . 
Very suddenly , the driver stopped swearing at them , turned on his heel and went back to his truck . 
Haney had n't given it much thought at the time . 
Now he recalled it very clearly , and wondered what the truck driver had seen in those eyes to make him back off . 
It must have been the sort of look that can call a bluff without saying a word . 
When the light went their way , they went on across the street . 
And when the stranger found out that Phil was on the way to one of his favorite bars , he insisted on offering to buy drinks for both of them . 
Phil usually went alone and kept to himself , sitting in a corner and passing the time by nursing his favorite grudges . 
But he decided he would n't mind company in return for free drinks , even though he made good money at his job . 
Phil was like that . 
Now he wondered if it was worth it , having a screwball for company . 
He really did n't take the offer seriously , but he began to feel uneasy . 
When he finally got the coughing under control , he realized that Pete ( all he gave was his first name ) was still waiting for an answer -- he did n't even seem to wink as he continued to stare . 
Haney managed a weak laugh . 
" Guess I ca n't think of anyone , Pete . 
Thanks anyhow " . 
A faint crease appeared between the man 's eyebrows . 
" I think you are n't taking me seriously , Phil . 
I meant it . 
And everybody has some kind of grudge . 
I might have got hit by that truck if it was n't for you . 
I believe in returning favors . 
I 'll do anything for somebody I like . 
It wo n't cost you a cent , Phil . 
Go ahead and try me " ! ! 
Phil rubbed his forehead wearily . 
He was beginning to feel woolly . 
Maybe it would be better to humor the guy and then make an exit . 
He really did n't expect anything to come of it , and there were a few people " All right " , he conceded finally , " if you must know , I do n't get along with the landlord . 
He keeps riding me because I like to listen to the radio and sing while I 'm taking a bath . 
He says the neighbors complain , but I do n't believe it . 
Why do n't they tell me themselves if it bothers them " ? ? 
The man closed his eyes and nodded . 
When he looked up again , he seemed almost contented . 
" Fine . 
Give me your address . 
It will take a little time . 
I want to study your landlord 's habits and movements first . 
You see , I always make it look like an accident . 
Maybe suicide , if it looks reasonable . 
In that way there 's no trouble for the customer " . 
Haney 's eyebrows flew up . 
" Customer " ? ? 
Pete smiled modestly . 
" It 's my line of work " , he said Five minutes later , before Haney could make his break , the stranger stood up and nodded farewell . 
Haney watched the small but wiry man slip out the door quickly and silently , and felt relieved to see that nobody else seemed to notice his departure . 
Phil decided to stay a little longer , and as time passed it seemed as if the strange little man had never been there , but for the other glass on the table . 
Some time before midnight he returned to his apartment and hit the sack , putting the whole incident out of mind before he fell asleep . 
The next day , Sunday , the hangover reminded Haney where he had been the night before . 
The hangover in turn reminded him of his conversation with the weirdy , and he groaned . 
He went for more aspirin later in the day , and passed the surly landlord on the way -- he was still alive and scowling as usual , as if tenants were a burden in his life . 
Phil shrugged and ignored him . 
He went back to work Monday . 
By Wednesday the landlord was still alive . 
Of course On Thursday , Haney mailed the monthly check for separate maintenance to his wife Lolly , and wished the stranger could do something about her Coming home from work , he was startled to see a police car parked in front of the apartment building . 
Inside the lobby , people were standing around , talking excitedly . 
His spine crawled with a foreboding premonition as he asked one of his fellow tenants what had happened . 
The landlord had died . 
Late that afternoon , it seemed , he had fallen off the roof while on some obscure errand or inspection . 
He had apparently been alone . 
Nobody witnessed the fall -- just the sickening impact when his body smashed on the pavement just outside the basement delivery entrance . 
Haney hoped that nobody noticed his sudden pallor , as he felt the blood drain from his cheeks . 
He muttered something about how terrible it was , and walked with deliberate slowness to the elevator . 
Once inside his apartment , he poured a drink with trembling hands and flopped limply in a chair . 
After a while he began to feel better about it , especially when no one bothered to ask any questions . 
But after all , why should they ? ? 
Still later , he finally convinced himself that it was an accident -- just a coincidence . 
The stranger really had nothing to do with it , of course Haney went to bed , happy that at least he was rid of that lousy landlord . 
After all , the man had no family , so no one suffered , and everybody was better off for it . 
Really , he said to himself , nobody kills a man just as a favor ! ! 
So you thought I did n't mean what I said . 
The stranger 's eyes were large and sad , as if Phil Haney had hurt his feelings . 
It was like a recurrent , annoying dream , but now the dream was beginning to take on overtones of a nightmare . 
However , Haney knew it was not a dream . 
He might be very tight , but he knew where he was . 
It was the same bar , and it was two weeks later -- Saturday night , when he had an excuse to drink heavier than usual . 
He had been sitting in the usual corner at the little table , as far as possible from any talkative , friendly lushes . 
He was enjoying the weekly ritual of washing down his pet grievance with bourbon slightly moistened with water . 
This favorite grievance was not the landlord . 
He had already quite forgotten about him . 
In fact , he had only mentioned him on the spur of the moment . 
His real grievance was Lolly . 
Toward the end of his fourth hairy highball , while he was moodily making wet rings on the table-top with the bottom of the glass , he became aware that he was not alone . 
He looked up with bloodshot eyes and beheld the stranger sitting across the table , smiling a secret smile at him , as if they were fellow conspirators . 
He had n't even noticed -- what was his name ? ? 
Pete ? ? 
-- he had n't seen him sit down . 
The man was uncanny , like a shadow , and made as much noise as a shadow . 
Haney felt like shrinking out of sight , but he was already trapped in the corner with the wiry , dark little man . 
He began to wish that he had n't shouted that other evening when the truck bore down through the crossing . 
Was he going to be saddled from now on with a creep for a bar-buddy ? ? 
He 'd have to start going to some of the other places again . 
In a low voice , almost whispering , the man had asked Phil if he was happy with the way the landlord had been taken off his back . 
He made the mistake of answering in an offhand way , and instantly realized that his skepticism must have showed in his face or voice . 
Pete frowned slightly , then became sad and moody . 
Haney did n't want to encourage his company , but felt he ought to buy him a drink anyhow , to prevent possible trouble . 
But there was no trouble . 
The guy sulked over his drink , obviously upset by Haney 's lack of appreciation . 
To break the uncomfortable silence , Haney began to talk . 
In time , and two drinks later , he was complaining bitterly about his wife , He was on the subject for ten minutes or so when he noticed the renewed interest in his listener -- it showed in the alert face and the suddenly bright eyes . 
When he paused to moisten his throat , the stranger broke in . 
" But why pay her bills ? ? 
If she runs around with other men , and if you hate her as you say , why not just divorce her " ? ? 
Haney scowled . 
" That bitch would love a divorce " , he growled . 
" Then she 'd get half of everything I have . 
Community property deal -- you know . 
I 'd have to sell out my business to pay her off with her share . 
She can drop dead " ! ! 
Pete nodded understandingly . 
" Oh yes . 
Now I see . 
You must understand , I have n't been in this state too long . 
I came out here to retire . 
That 's why I -- why I do a free job now and then . 
You should have told me about her before " . 
Haney felt a twinge of annoyance when he heard the now familiar line again . 
Then a wild thought ran circles through his clouded brain . 
Suppose -- just suppose this guy was really what he said he was ! ! 
A retired professional killer If he was just a nut , no harm was done . 
But if he was the real thing , he could do something about Lolly . 
He felt very cunning , very proud of himself as he played on the other man 's soft spot . 
" No offense intended " , he said gently . 
" But it 's just that -- well , you know . 
The cops did n't suspect a thing , and I thought it was a coincidence . 
After all , I did n't know you , Pete . 
It could have been an accident " . 
He shrugged casually . 
" But if you say you managed it " The stranger was hooked . 
His eyes burned feverishly . 
" Yes , yes " , he muttered impatiently . 
" Of course it looked like an accident . 
I always work it that way -- and always at a time when the customer has an alibi . 
Let me prove it , Phil . 
I think I can manage one more favor for you " . 
He waited eagerly . 
Haney swished the liquor in the bottom of his glass . 
