Then he turned the telephone over to Rourke , and went into the bedroom to change his slippers for dry socks and shoes . 
Rourke was talking on the phone when he came back . 
" About an hour , eh ? ? 
Are you positive " ? ? 
He listened a moment and then said , " Hold it " . 
He turned his head and said , " Alvarez will definitely be in a back room at the Jai Alai Club on South Beach within an hour . 
Want to try and meet him there " ? ? 
Shayne looked at his watch . 
That was n't too far from Fifth Street , and should allow him to make Scotty 's Bar by midnight . 
He said with satisfaction , " That 's fine , Tim . 
I 'll be there " . 
Rourke confirmed the appointment over the phone and hung up . 
" I do n't know what you 're getting into , Mike " , he said unhappily . 
" I hope to Christ . 
" Shayne said briskly , " Grab another drink if you want it . 
We 've got one other call to make before I meet Alvarez " . 
" Where " ? ? 
" It 's out in the Northeast section . 
Have you got my car here " ? ? 
" It 's parked in front " . 
Rourke hastily slopped whiskey into his glass on top of half-melted ice-cubes . 
" I 'd better keep on driving yours " , Shayne decided , " because I 'll be going on over to the Beach . 
I can drop you back here to pick mine up " . 
He went to a closet to get a light jacket , and took his hat from beside the door . 
Timothy Rourke gulped down the whiskey hastily and joined him , asking , " Who are we going to call on in the Northeast section " ? ? 
" A lady . 
That is , maybe not too much of a lady . 
At least , I want to find out whether she 's home yet or not " . 
He opened the door and followed Rourke out . 
In Rourke 's car , Shayne drove east to Biscayne Boulevard and north toward Felice Perrin 's address which had been given to him by the Peralta governess . 
As he drove , he filled in Timothy Rourke briefly on the events of the evening after leaving the reporter to go to the Peralta house , and on his own surmises . 
" I want to be in Scotty 's Bar at midnight when Marsha makes her phone call there " , he ended grimly . 
" I do n't know whether that threatening letter of hers has anything to do with this situation or not , but I want to see who takes the call " . 
" This deal at Las Putas Buenas where the two knife-men jumped you " , said Rourke with interest , " that sounds like it was set up with malice aforethought by the luscious Mrs. Peralta , does n't it " ? ? 
" It does " , Shayne grunted sourly , still able to taste her mouth on his in the Green Jungle parking lot . 
" That story of hers about an unsigned note directing her to be there tonight sounds completely phony . 
If it was designed to put me on the spot , it would have to have been written before Peralta ever called me in on the case " . 
" Do you think Laura did have the counterfeit bracelet made without her husband 's knowledge " ? ? 
" I have n't the faintest idea . 
I think her husband strongly suspects so , and that 's why he called me in on the thing in direct defiance of his confederates and almost certainly without telling them why he was doing so . 
Is n't this Felice 's street " ? ? 
Shayne asked , peering ahead at the partially obscured street sign . 
Rourke could see it better out the right-hand side , and he said , " yes . 
Turn to the left , I think , for that number you gave me . 
Not more than a block or so " . 
Shayne got in the left-hand lane and cut across the Boulevard divider . 
There was a small , neon-lighted restaurant and cocktail lounge on the southeast corner of the intersection as he turned into the quiet , palm-lined street where most of the houses on both sides were older two-story mansions , now cut up into furnished rooms and housekeeping apartments . 
Shayne drove westward from the Boulevard slowly , letting Rourke crane his head out the window and watch for street numbers . 
A single automobile was parked half-way up the block on the left-hand side . 
Shayne noted idly that it carried Miami Beach license plates as he approached , and then saw the flare of a match in the front seat as they passed , indicating that it was occupied . 
He turned to see the briefly-illumed faces of two men in the parked car just as Rourke said , " It 's the next house , Mike . 
On the right " . 
Instead of pulling into the curb , Shayne increased his speed slightly to the corner where he swung left . 
He went around the corner and parked , turning off his lights and motor . 
" I told you , Mike " , said Rourke in an aggrieved voice . 
" It was back there . 
" Shayne said , " I know it was , Tim " . 
His voice was chilling and cold . 
" Did you see the car parked across the street " ? ? 
" I did n't notice it . 
I was watching for numbers . 
" " It has a Beach license , Tim . 
Two men in the front seat . 
I got a quick look at their faces as we went past . 
Unless I 'm crazy as hell , they 're two of Painter 's dicks . 
A couple named Harris and Geely . 
Those names mean anything to you " ? ? 
" Wait a minute , Mike . 
In Painter 's office this evening . 
" Shayne nodded grimly . 
" The pair whom Petey is officially commending for slapping me around and pulling me in " . 
" What are they doing here " ? ? 
" A stake-out , I suppose . 
On Felice Perrin . 
Maybe with specific orders to see that I do n't make contact with her . 
I 'm not positive , Tim . 
I may be wrong . 
I 'll slide out and walk around the block back to the cocktail lounge on Biscayne . 
You drive on and circle back and pull up beside them parked there . 
You 're a reporter , and you 're looking for Miss Perrin to interview her . 
Make them show their hands . 
If they are Beach cops on a stake-out , they 'll admit it to a reporter . 
They 've got no official standing on this side of the Bay . 
As soon as you find out if they are Geely and Harris , come on around to the lounge where I 'll be waiting " . 
Shayne opened the door on his side and stepped out . 
Timothy Rourke groaned dismally as he slid under the wheel . 
" The things you talk me into , Mike . 
" Shayne chuckled . 
" How often do they add up to headlines ? ? 
You should complain " . 
He crossed the street and walked swiftly southward to circle back to the Boulevard and north a block to the open restaurant . 
He was standing at the end of the bar enjoying a slug of cognac when Rourke came in six or eight minutes later . 
The reporter nodded as he moved up beside him at the bar . 
Shayne told the bartender , " Bourbon and water " , and Rourke told him , " It 's those two , all right . 
Harris and Geely . 
I made them show me their identification before I could be persuaded not to call on Felice Perrin " . 
Shayne said happily , " I 've got it all worked out , Tim . 
Take your time with your drink . 
I 'll beat it . 
In exactly three minutes , go in that phone booth behind you and call Police Headquarters . 
Be excited and do n't identify yourself . 
Just say that a couple of drunks are having a hell of a fight down the street , and they better send a patrol car . 
Then hang up fast and come walking on down to the Perrin address . 
I 'll be waiting for you there " . 
The bartender brought Rourke 's drink and Shayne laid a twenty-dollar bill on the bar . 
He said in a low voice , " I 've got a date with a lady , Mister . 
Will that pay for a pint I can take with me . 
You know how it is " , he added with a conspiratorial wink . 
" Candy is dandy , but liquor is quicker and you do n't have any candy for sale here anyhow " . 
" We sure do n't " . 
The bartender winked back at him and palmed the bill . 
He turned away and returned in a moment with a pint of brandy in a small paper sack which he slid over the counter to Shayne . 
As the detective slid it into his pocket , Rourke asked sadly , " What in hell are you going to do , Mike " ? ? 
" Make a couple of punk detectives named Geely and Harris wish to God they 'd stayed out of my way this afternoon . 
Three minutes , Tim " . 
Shayne strode out blithely , and Rourke checked his watch and sipped his drink , getting a dime ready to make the telephone call to the police . 
Outside , Shayne hesitated when he saw that Rourke had parked his coupe directly in front of the bar headed south . 
He walked over to the right-hand door , opened it and got the reloaded automatic out of the glove compartment and put it in his hip pocket . 
He hoped he would n't be forced to use it in taking care of the Beach detectives , but its weight was comforting at his hip . 
On this side of the Bay , Miami Beach cops had no more legal rights than any ordinary citizen , and Shayne 's pistol permit was just as good as theirs . 
He went swiftly up the sidewalk toward the parked car with the two Beach detectives in the front seat . 
He tugged the brim of his hat low as he approached , stepped out into the street just behind the car and strode around to the right-hand side . 
The big , paunchy man named Geely was on that side , half-turned in the seat toward his hatchet-faced companion so that his back partially rested against the closed door . 
Shayne turned the handle and jerked the door open before either of the men were quite aware of his presence in the night . 
Geely grunted and slid partly out , and Shayne 's left arm snaked in around his neck to help him , while he set himself solidly on the roadway and swung his right fist to the big , gum-chewing jaw before Geely could straighten up . 
Shayne stepped back to let him slump to the ground , and then dived over him through the open door into Harris who was cursing loudly and trying to drag a gun from a shoulder holster , somewhat impeded by the steering wheel . 
Shayne locked his big hands around Harris ' thin neck and dragged him out over the seat into the roadway . 
He hit him once on the sharp point of his chin and felt the body go limp . 
He dropped him into the street a couple of feet away from Geely 's recumbent figure and stared down at both of them for a moment before kicking the big man lightly in the side . 
He did n't stir . 
They were both breathing heavily , out cold , and Shayne did n't think either of them had recognized him or could describe him . 
He got the pint of liquor out of his pocket and unscrewed the top , sprinkled the pungent stuff liberally over both men , and then tossed the open bottle in on the front seat . 
He turned , then , to look toward the lighted Boulevard , and saw Rourke 's tall , emaciated figure come out of the lounge and hurriedly start to angle across the street toward the opposite side . 
Shayne strolled across to intercept the reporter in front of the two-story house where Felice Perrin lived , and asked casually , " Get the police okay " ? ? 
" Sure . 
Said they 'd have a patrol car here fast . 
Let 's get inside . 
What happened with you " ? ? 
" Why the two damned fools got all excited when they saw the bottle , and knocked each other out cold " , Shayne said good-humoredly . 
" They 'll have fun explaining that to the Miami cops . 
Got no business over here on a stake-out anyway " . 
They went up onto a front porch and into a small hallway where a dim bulb burned high in the ceiling . 
A row of mailboxes along the wall had numbers and names on them . 
Shayne found one marked Perrin A[fj] . 
The stairway on the right was dark , but there was a wall-switch at the bottom which lighted another dim bulb at the top , and they went up . 
There were two front rooms , both dark behind their transoms , and there was no sound or light in the entire house to indicate that any of the occupants were awake . 
