There were thirty-eight patients on the bus the morning I left for Hanover , most of them disturbed and hallucinating . 
An interne , a nurse and two attendants were in charge of us . 
I felt lonely and depressed as I stared out the bus window at Chicago 's grim , dirty West Side . 
It seemed incredible , as I listened to the monotonous drone of voices and smelled the fetid odors coming from the patients , that technically I was a ward of the state of Illinois , going to a hospital for the mentally ill . 
I suddenly thought of Mary Jane Brennan , the way her pretty eyes could flash with anger , her quiet competence , the gentleness and sweetness that lay just beneath the surface of her defenses . 
We had become good friends during my stay at Cook County Hospital . 
I had told her enough about myself to offset somewhat the damaging stories that had appeared in local newspapers after my little adventure in Marshall Field & Co. . She knew that I lived at a good address on the Gold Coast , that I had once been a medical student and was thinking of returning to the university to finish my medical studies . 
She knew also that I was unmarried and without a single known relative . 
She was n't quite sure that I felt enough remorse about my drinking , or that I would not return to it once I was out and on my own again . 
This had worried her . 
" I read those newspaper stories about you " , she had said . 
" You must have loved that girl very much , but you could n't have meant it when you said that you wanted to kill her " . 
" Why do you say that " ? ? 
I asked . 
" I was full of booze and , well , a drunk is apt to do anything he says he 'll do " . 
Nonsense ! ! 
I grew up in an Irish neighborhood on Chicago 's West Side . 
Do n't tell me about drunks . 
You 're not the kind to go violent . 
Were you in love with that girl " ? ? 
" Would it make any difference to you if I were , Mary Jane " ? ? 
She met my eyes , suddenly angry . 
" I would n't have gone into nursing if I did n't care about people . 
I 'm interested in every patient I 've helped take care of . 
When I think of people like you , well , I " -- " You what , Mary Jane " ? ? 
" You are young , intelligent , have a whole lifetime before you to make something worth while of yourself , but you mess it up with whiskey , indifference , self-destructive attitudes . 
I do n't blame that girl for breaking her engagement with you . 
Was she pretty " ? ? 
" Oh , yes " , I said , feeling annoyed , " she was very pretty . 
You do n't believe that I 'm going back to medical school and finish , do you " ? ? 
" Why should I ? ? 
I 've worked this ward for three months now . 
We keep getting the same ones back again and again . 
They all mean well , have great promises to make when they are about to go home , but drinking is their sickness . 
You 've not seemed like them , but maybe you are . 
You 've treated your stay here like a big joke . 
It 's not a joke to be sent to a place like this or to Hanover . 
I wanted to go to college , too " -- " Why did n't you " ? ? 
I asked . 
" Chicago has some of the best " -- Her eyes flashed angrily . 
" That 's what I mean about you , Anderson " , she said . 
" You do n't seem to know much about reality . 
I 'll tell you why I did n't go to college ; ; I 'm the oldest of six children . 
My father 's a policeman and makes less than seven thousand dollars a year . 
There was no money for tuition , for clothes , for all the things you apparently take for granted . 
Nurses ' training here does n't cost anything . 
They even pay me six dollars a month . 
I think it 's a good deal . 
I 'm going to become a good nurse , and I 've got two baby brothers that are going to have college if I have to work at my profession until I 'm an old maid to give it to them " . 
" Do you have a boy friend " ? ? 
I asked . 
" That 's none of your business " , she said , then changed the subject . 
" What about your father and mother , do n't you think of them when you 're in a place like this " ? ? 
" My father and mother died when I was two years old " , I said . 
" My aunt raised me . 
Aunt Mary died when I was doing my military service . 
I have no one but myself to worry about " . 
Something in my voice must have touched her deeply because her anger passed quickly , and she turned away to keep me from seeing her face . 
" I 'm sorry " , she said . 
" I do n't know what I 'd do without my family . 
We 've always been so close " . 
" Tell me more about them " . 
Her eyes became bright as she talked about her father and mother , aunts and uncles , cousins . 
Listening , I felt cheated and lonely as only an orphan can . 
When she had finished I said : " Your dad sounds like a good father and a good policeman . 
I 'll bet he would n't be pleased if a rumdum like me were to ask his daughter for a date -- I mean , after I 'm out of the hospital , a month or so from now " . 
" My father is a sergeant of detectives and has been attached to Homicide for five years . 
He 's a pretty good judge of character , Anderson . 
I do n't think he 'd mind too much if he were sure you 'd decided not to be a rumdum in the future " . 
" What about you ? ? 
How would you feel about it if I were to ask you for a date when I get through at Hanover " ? ? 
" If I thought you were serious about going back to school , that you 'd learned something from your experiences here and at Hanover -- well , I might consider such an offer . 
What about your that girl you were going to kill " ? ? 
It suddenly seemed very important to me that Mary Jane Brennan should know the truth about me -- that I was not the confused , sick , irresponsible person she believed me to be . 
" There are things about me that I can n't tell you now , Mary Jane " , I said , " but if you 'll go out to dinner with me when I get out of Hanover , I 'd like to tell you the whole story . 
I can say this : I 'm dead serious about going back to school . 
As for that other girl , let 's just say that I never want to see her again . 
You will get to come home on long weekends from Hanover , wo n't you " ? ? 
" Yes , I 'll get one overnight a month " . 
" We 'll go up to the Edgewater Beach Hotel for dinner " , I said . 
" Do you like to dance ? ? 
They always have a good orchestra " . 
" I like to dance " , she said , then turned and walked away . 
There had n't been anything really personal in her interest in me . 
I knew that . 
It was just that she felt deeply about every patient on the ward and wanted to believe that they might benefit from their treatment there . 
Now , riding this hospital bus , feeling isolated and utterly alone , I knew that she was genuine and unique , quite unlike any girl I had known before . 
It seemed the most important thing in my life at this moment that she should know the real truth about me . 
It was a fantastic story . 
Only two people in the state of Illinois knew that I was entering Hanover State Hospital under an assumed name , or why . 
It was unlikely that any girl as sharp as Mary Jane Brennan would believe it without proof . 
But I had the proof , all documented in a legal agreement which I would show her the moment I was free to do so . 
As the bus turned into the main highway and headed toward Hanover I settled back in my seat and closed my eyes , thinking over the events of the past two weeks , trying to put the pieces in order . 
I wondered suddenly as I listened to the disconnected jabberings coming from the patient behind me , if I had not perhaps imagined it all . 
Perhaps this was reality and Dale Nelson , the actor , was delusion ; ; a figment of Carl Anderson 's imagination . 
Four I had come to Chicago from New York early in September with a dramatic production called Ask Tony . 
It was a bad play , real grade-A turkey , which only a prevalence of angels with grandiose dreams of capital gain and tax money to burn could have put into rehearsal . 
No one , not even the producer , had any real hope of getting it back to Broadway . 
But because it was a suspense gangster story of the Capone era , many of us felt that it might catch on for a run in Chicago , continue as a road company , and eventually become a movie . 
Such optimism was completely unjustified . 
The critics literally screamed their indignation . 
Ask Tony was doomed from the moment Kupcinet leveled on it in his Sun-Times column . 
We opened on Friday and closed the following Monday . 
Out of the entire cast I alone received good notices for my portrayal of a psychopathic killer . 
This let me in for a lot of kidding from the rest of the company , two members of which were native Chicagoans . 
We were paid off Tuesday morning and given tickets back to New York . 
I felt lonely and depressed as I packed my bags at the Croydon Hotel . 
It seemed to me that my life was destined to be one brilliant failure after another . 
I had been among the top third in my class at N.Y.U. , had wanted desperately to go to medical school , but I 'd run out of money and energy at the same time . 
Then later I had quit my safe , secure five-a-week spot on a network soap opera to take a part in this play . 
It seemed to me that I was not only unlucky but quite stupid as well . 
I knew that I 'd soon be back working as an orderly at the hospital or as a counterman at Union News or Schraffts while waiting for another acting job to open . 
It suddenly occurred to me that I did not particularly like acting , that I was at some sort of crossroads and would have to decide soon what I was going to do with my life . 
I closed the last bag and stood all three at the door for the bellboy to pick up , then went to the bathroom for a drink of water . 
The telephone rang . 
When I answered it a voice too dignified and British to be real said , " Is this Mr. Dale Nelson , the actor " ? ? 
" All right " , I said . 
" Why do n't you bastards lay off for a while " ? ? 
" I beg your pardon , sir " ? ? 
" All right . 
This is Dale Nelson the actor " . 
" Good . 
I 'm calling you , Mr. Nelson , at the request of Mr. Phillip Wycoff . 
Could you possibly have lunch with him today ? ? 
His car could pick you up at your hotel at twelve " . 
I smiled . 
" You 'll send the Rolls-Royce , of course " ? ? 
" Yes , of course , Mr. Nelson " . 
I started to say something else appropriate , but the man had hung up . 
I finally went downstairs to the bar off the main lobby where most of the cast were drowning their sorrows over the untimely passing of Ask Tony . 
They all bowed low as I approached them . 
" All right , you bastards " , I said , " the great actor is about to buy a drink " . 
I laid a tenspot on the bar and motioned to the bartender to serve a round . 
He had just returned my change when the doorman came in off the street to page me . 
I walked over to him . 
" You Mr. Nelson " ? ? 
He asked . 
" That 's right " . 
" Mr. Wycoff 's car is waiting for you at the east entrance " . 
I followed him out through the lobby to the street . 
An ancient Rolls-Royce , as shiningly impressive as the day it came off the ship , was parked at the curb . 
The elderly chauffeur , immaculate in a dark uniform , stood stiffly at attention holding open the door of the town car . 
