In good time I shall get to the distressing actuality , to Red McIver and Handley Walker , to murder and sudden death . 
But you realize , I am sure , how much old deeds incite to new ones , and you must forgive me if I tell you first of the old ones . 
It was in 1814 that Abraham Wharf and his sister sat by a meager fire in their house on Dogtown Common , a desolate place even then . 
He was sharpening his razor . 
" Sister " , said he " do you think people who commit suicide go to heaven " ? ? 
And she answered , " I do n't know , but I hope you 'll never do such a thing " . 
Without a tremor , " God forbid " ! ! 
He said , and went out and cut his throat in the cave near Granny Day 's swamp . 
What has this to do with the present ? ? 
Much , I assure you . 
You must know what gets into people , even such as Red and Handley , before you can tell what comes out of them . 
They had learned , both of them , about Abraham Wharf . 
That 's why I beg you not to forget him . 
His ghost is not laid . 
Red and Handley , God help them , knew the old Dogtown lore ; ; and I knew they knew it , for I 'd told them a lot of it . 
And is n't it true that you get a deeper perception about a man and his motives when you know what it is he knows ? ? 
Yes , gentlemen , I am getting to the point , to my point . 
You know the facts ; ; they are set forth in your own newspapers . 
You want from me the story , but a story is about ' why ' and then , perhaps , about how . 
The ' when ' you know ; ; yesterday morning . 
So what I am trying to tell you is the ' why ' -- that is my point -- and that concerns the spirit of the matter . 
There is an inwardness and a luster to old furniture ( look at that mahogany highboy behind you ) which has a provocative emanation , if I may say so . 
Places , too , have their haunting qualities . 
Even people . 
And my point in this sad story is the spirit of the matter . 
When you hold the spirit of a thing , then somehow you know the truth -- you know a fake antique from the real thing . 
And the truth is what you 've come for , is it not ? ? 
Now , Dogtown is one of those places that creeps into the marrow as worms get into old wood , under the veneer . 
In fact , all the folk who lived on the back of Cape Ann , they are not just like others . 
There 's a different hall-mark on them . 
There were no witch burnings here because everyone had a witch in the family . 
Just think of old Granther Stannard who pulled the teeth of Dark Younger ( her real name was Dorcas ) , and because he bungled the job and left two protruding tusks she put such a hex on him that he thought his legs were made of glass . 
After that he was never known to run or even walk fast . 
Today Dogtown is the only deserted village in all New England that I know of . 
There it sits , a small highland , with towns like Gloucester near by ; ; but now it 's the most lost and tortured place in the world . 
Those who lived in that desolation of rocky deformity took on some of the moraine 's stony character . 
Scientists say it is the last spewings of a great glacier , but one rather feels that only a malevolent giant could have piled up those crouching monsters of granite which still seem to preserve a sort of suspended , ominous life in them . 
We 'll walk up there later . 
It 's perhaps a mile from here where we sit . 
And not one single dwelling left there , though once , in the early eighteenth century , there were close to a hundred houses . 
( I myself have identified about sixty sites , from the old maps and registers . 
A fascinating pursuit , I assure you . 
) Even I can remember nothing but ruined cellars and tumbled pillars , and nobody has lived there in the memory of any living man . 
It is now a sweep of boulders and ledges , with oak , walnut and sumac creeping across the common , and everywhere the ruins and the long , long shadows . 
That 's your setting , and a sinister one . 
Please get that in your reports . 
It accounts for so many things . 
Both Red McIver and Handley Walker lived nearby , almost as near as I do . 
Red lived at Lanesville , and from his house he could be up on the Common in a half hour 's brisk walk ; ; Handley lived further on , at Pigeon Cove . 
I 'd often find one or other of them up around Dogtown sketching . 
They were both painters , ( They were ? ? 
They are ? ? 
What should one say ? ? 
) Well , anyhow , Dogtown Common is so much off the beaten track nowadays that only Sunday picnickers still stray up there , from time to time . 
Sea-road , railroad , lack of water , killed Dogtown . 
Dead , dead as a brass door nail , and I sometimes feel like the Sexton , for I 'm about the last to be even interested . 
I knew Red and Handley well . 
As I said , they were both painters . 
They 'd come , separately , to Gloucester some twenty years ago -- there 's always been an artists ' colony somewhere on Cape Ann -- and each married here . 
They married cousins , Anta and Freya Norberg . 
There are a lot of Scandinavians in this neck of the woods , and many still make painted furniture and take steam-baths . 
Pretty girls among them , with blonde hair and pert faces . 
Handley married Freya and Red , of the red beard , married Anta . 
And it was because of an old Norberg inheritance that I got to understand them all so well . 
The quarrel ended in a ridiculous draw , but I must tell you about it . 
Oh , yes , I 'm quite sure it 's important , because of the Beech Pasture . 
What 's that ? ? 
Why , that 's what gave me the feeling , gave me as-it-were the spirit , the demoniac , evil spirit of this whole affair . 
You see , besides being custodian of antiquities , I am also registrar . 
No , I do n't hold with those who live entirely among dead things . 
I know as well as the next man that a ship is called from the rigging she carries , where the live wind blows , and not from the hull . 
But you 've got to know both . 
What 's below the water-line interests me also . 
As I was saying , I 've known all about the old records , including the old Norberg deed . 
Some ten years ago that page was torn out , I do n't know by whom . 
About five years ago , Handley came to ask me if he could see the tattered register . 
He was courteous and casual about it , as though it were of no consequence . 
He 's always like that , in spite of being a big man . 
( When you see him , you 'll notice his habit of fingering , I might almost say , stroking a large mole with black hairs on it , by his right temple . 
) A sensual man , but very courteous , some would say slick . 
Like his glossy black hair . 
Too many outside manners , to my taste . 
He is the sort who , with an appraising eye , would cross the street to help a strange woman on to a bus and then pinch her . 
A real gentleman , I feel , would do neither . 
He 's always worn a broad-brimmed hat , and I 've noticed , in my small study at the Society , that he rather smells of cosmetics . 
The next week , cousin Red wandered in as casually , but curt and untidy . 
Red was small and fine-boned , like ivory-inlay . 
He too asked to see the same page . 
When I told him someone had torn it out , he shouted . 
" By God , it 's that damn Handley , the sneak " ! ! 
And later in the same week they both came together to examine the register . 
Fortunately we were alone in the building -- so few people nowadays are interested even in their own past or in the lovely craft of other days -- for they began to abuse each other in the foulest language . 
Red thrusting out his tawny beard , Handley glowering under his suddenly rumpled black hair . 
They actually bristled . 
Le rouge et le noir . 
Violent men both . 
Red always was morose , yet that day the dapper Handley was the louder of the two . 
But for my presence , they would have been at each others ' throats . 
During the quarrel I learned what the trouble was , from the accusations each hurled at the other . 
The Beech Pasture had suddenly become valuable . 
There 's a fine granite quarry there , and granite 's coming back for public buildings . 
Both men knew it was in the Norberg family holdings , but to which of the cousins did it belong , Anta or Freya ? ? 
Fortunately , I knew almost exactly what the will had said . 
It began with a preamble , of course . 
This explained that the judge of probate of Essex County , 1785 or 1786 , appointed three free-holders of Gloucester to divide and establish the Norberg estate . 
After the usual Honorable Sirs , it went on to say that there had been set off to the widow one full third part of the real estate of the deceased Salu Norberg , one lower room , on the Western side , privileges to the well and bake-oven and to one third of the cellar ( I can show you the cellar when we go up ) , also one Cow Right , and lastly they set off to the widow her own land that she brought with her as dower , namely the Beech Pasture . 
And I remember that the whole of the privileges , not counting the Beech Pasture , was valued at twenty pounds . 
I wish you could have seen the crests fall on these two sparring coxcombs when I told them that obviously the pasture belonged to their wives jointly . 
That battle scene , ridiculous as it was , remained in my mind . 
A disturbing picture of bad blood , to be further heightened with illicit if buccolic colors , for on a subsequent day I saw Handley escorting Anta , Red 's wife , up on Dogtown Common . 
I felt it would be inopportune to disclose my presence . 
Not that I intentionally go unperceived , but the boulders up there are very high and I am a small woman . 
One other cause of jealousy between them I must tell you . 
Paint ! ! 
Gloomy and unkempt as Red McIver was , he was much the better painter . 
I suppose Handley knew it . 
If Red had a show at Gloucester , Handley would hurry to hang his pictures in Rockport . 
You may say this has little pertinence , but , gentlemen , remember that all this prepared my mind , alerted my intelligence . 
By such touches the pattern takes shape . 
You would call these the motives of crime . 
I would call them the patterns of life , perhaps even the designs of destiny . 
Yet with all this knowledge I had nothing of substance to unravel our case , as you would call it , till yesterday . 
One month ago , on the 20th of October , was the opening of the gunning season in Massachusetts . 
Not much to shoot , but there are a few pheasant . 
Rabbits , too , if you care for them , which most of the folk around here have n't the sense to appreciate . 
Any more than they have the sense to eat mussels . 
That was the day Red was said to have gone away . 
Oh yes , he 'd talked about doing so . 
In fact , he often disappeared , from time to time , -- off to paint the sea , aboard a dragger out from Gloucester . 
Anta , his wife , never seemed to mind . 
I suppose these absences gave her more clearance for her embraces with Cousin Handley . 
Anyhow , I was n't surprised , early that morning , to see Handley himself crossing from Dogtown Common Road to the Back Road . 
No , he did n't have his gun , which he should have . 
It would have been a good excuse for his being there at all . 
I myself had been up there by seven o'clock , after mushrooms , since there 'd been a week of rain which had stopped early that morning and the day was as clear as Sandwich glass . 
