His jowls were spiked by barbs of graying beard . 
His small , mean eyes regarded Marty steadily , unblinkingly . 
His eyes were threaded by little filaments of red as if tiny veins had burst and flooded blood into them . 
As he chewed his gum and exuded wheezing breath , Marty smelt the reek of bad whiskey . 
Marty recognized the man . 
He had driven the car that passed them on the road outside Admassy 's place . 
This was Acey Squire , proprietor of the juke joint . 
Marty smiled at Squire pleasantly and said , " There was a cab waiting for me here . 
Do you know where it might have gone " ? ? 
Squire chewed his gum , his jaw moving in a steady rhythm . 
He looked straight at Marty . 
He did not answer . 
Marty scanned the faces of the others nearest him , looked into their staring eyes . 
" Did anyone see my cab " ? ? 
He asked , keeping his voice casual . 
He avoided showing any surprise or annoyance when no one answered him . 
" I have to get back to Jarrodsville " , he went on . 
" I see there are some cars here . 
I wonder if one of you gentlemen could drive me back to town ? ? 
I 'd be happy to pay for the favor , of course " . 
The seventeen men stood and stared at him for a moment longer . 
And then a startling thing occurred . 
It was so utterly unexpected that Marty stood for several moments with his mouth hanging open foolishly after it had happened . 
There was no word spoken , no apparent signal given . 
Yet the men all moved at the same instant . 
They piled into the waiting cars , motors roared , the cars sped off . 
The station wagon and the old Plymouth headed east toward Jarrodsville . 
The Ford and the pickup truck sped west toward Sanford 's Run . 
In seconds all four cars were out of sight . 
Marty Land stood alone on a red-clay road as storm clouds gathered ominously in the sky again . 
From a great distance thunder growled and broke the silence . 
Land looked back toward the dilapidated house . 
He thought he saw a pale face at a window . 
Perhaps it was Dora May . 
Perhaps she would be glad that they had n't hurt him . 
There were other farmhouses nearby . 
Across the road there was one no more than a hundred yards away . 
There was another on this side , a little further down . 
There were many more between here and Jarrodsville . 
Telephone poles lined the road . 
They reared tall and mocking . 
Their wires stretched out into infinity . 
Not a single strand of wire reached into the silent houses beside the red-clay road . 
There was nothing he could do but walk . 
And Jarrodsville was more than three miles away , down an old dirt road that the rain had turned into a quagmire . 
Marty faced east and started walking down the left side of the road . 
After he had proceeded a few feet , he paused and turned up the cuffs of his trousers , which were already damp and mud-caked . 
The viscous mud was ankle-deep , and in places great puddles spread across the road and reflected the murky light . 
As he approached the first farmhouse , thunder sounded behind him again , closer now and louder , like a steadily advancing drum corps . 
There were several people on the porch of the farmhouse . 
There was a very old man and a young woman and a brood of children ranging from toddlers to teen-agers . 
For just an instant he thought of appealing to them for help . 
Perhaps they had a car or truck and would drive him into town . 
Then he realized the utter futility of the idea . 
They were staring at him in the same blank and menacing way that the men outside the gate had stared . 
Even the eyes of the smallest children seemed malicious . 
On his side of the road there were two farm hands , well back in a field , leaning against a plow . 
They , too , stared at him . 
The drums of thunder were right behind him now . 
A foolish thought came into his head . 
He remembered a story he had read as a youth . 
It was probably one of Kipling 's tales of the British Army . 
It concerned an officer who had been disgraced and drummed out . 
The steady roll of the drums had sounded behind him as he walked between the endless ranks of the men he had commanded , and each man about-faced and turned his back as the officer approached . 
Marty wished these poor farm people would turn their backs . 
The fencing by the roadside ended . 
Now the dirt highway was bordered on either side by a fairly deep drainage ditch , too broad to leap over unless you were an Olympic star . 
The day 's rain had been added to the stagnant water . 
He was trapped on the road when he heard the sound of an approaching car . 
It was coming toward him . 
The car was now in sight . 
Marty 's heart skipped a beat when he recognized it . 
It was the station wagon that had passed his cab on the road , the station wagon that had been parked at the Burch farm . 
Acey Squire 's station wagon . 
It had headed back toward Jarrodsville . 
That had only been a ruse to lure him out on the deserted road . 
Now Acey and his friends were returning to seek him out . 
The station wagon came to a stop a couple of hundred feet in front of him , beside a fenced field . 
Then there was another sound . 
A second car was coming from the west , from the direction of Sanford 's Run . 
It was the Ford that had been outside Burch 's farm . 
Marty looked helplessly in both directions . 
It was a narrow road , barely wide enough for two cars to pass . 
He could not leave the road because of the water-filled drainage ditch . 
When the two cars were equidistant from him , the station wagon started up again and the Ford gathered speed . 
They bore down on him . 
There was nothing he could do except jump into the ditch . 
He jumped , and sank to his knees in muddy water . 
As the two cars roared by , there was a high-pitched eerie , nerve-shattering sound . 
Marty knew how the Union soldiers must have felt at Chancellorsville and Antietam and Gettysburg when the ragged gray ranks charged at them , screaming the wild banshee howl they called the Rebel yell . 
For moments he stood in water , shivering and gasping for breath . 
He had turned his ankle slightly , and it pained him . 
The cars , with their load of howling men , had disappeared in the distance . 
There had been two more cars parked at the farm , a Plymouth and a pickup truck . 
They would be coming for him next , bearing down on him from both directions . 
And then the station wagon and the Ford would seek him out again . 
He would be harassed repeatedly and would escape death by inches time after time , all the way to Jarrodsville . 
He still had three miles to go . 
Back East the more affluent juvenile delinquents , who could afford hyped-up autos instead of switch blades as lethal weapons , played this same game and called it " Chicken " . 
He could not go through the fields . 
That way was barred on both sides of the road by a high barbed-wire fence . 
He had to make for the section of road just ahead that was bordered by the rail fence , the section by the farmhouse . 
At least he could climb up on the fence when his tormenters roared by again . 
The Admassy place could not be far now . 
He would go in there , climb through the window , and at least be safe for a little while and able to rest . 
There was even a bare chance that the phone had not been disconnected . 
He did not dare climb back up to the road . 
He was deep in water , but at least they could not reach him there . 
He splashed on , mud sucking at his feet with each step , until he reached the end of the drainage ditch and the beginning of the fence that enclosed the farm . 
He climbed back to the road , and he felt utterly exhausted . 
He stood , panting , for a moment . 
And then he saw something that he had not seen before , and panic gripped him again . 
The fence , his only refuge when the metal death came roaring at him , was made of rails , all right , but the rails were protected by a thick screening of barbed wire that would rip his flesh if he pressed against it . 
He lurched on down the road despairingly , because there was no place else to go . 
He lost all sense of dignity . 
You could not stand on dignity when you were soaked and muddied and your life was at stake . 
Probably people were watching him from the porch or from behind the windows of this farmhouse , too , but he did not bother to look . 
He broke into a dogtrot , breathing heavily , streaming with sweat . 
He had to reach Admassy 's place . 
It was his only sanctuary . 
The fences on both sides of the road bristled with the barbed wire . 
The fences stretched on endlessly . 
And then he heard them . 
And now he saw them . 
The Plymouth was coming at him from the east , the pickup truck from the west . 
They had timed it better this time . 
They would reach him at almost exactly the same instant . 
He stopped stone-still . 
If he backed against the fence , one of the cars would brush him as it passed , and he would be cruelly lacerated by the wire . 
He stumbled to the middle of the road and simply stood there , waiting for them , a perfect target . 
The cars must have had their gas pedals pushed down to the floor boards . 
They were coming on at reckless speed for such old vehicles . 
They thundered at him . 
He held his arms close to his sides and made himself as small as possible . 
When the Plymouth neared , it veered toward him and seemed about to run him down . 
He forced himself to stay frozen there . 
If he moved , he would be in the path of the other car . 
He thought the fender of the Plymouth brushed his jacket as it went by . 
In a fraction of a second the pickup truck hurtled by on the other side . 
The weird , insane sound of the Rebel yell reverberated again and echoed from the distant hills . 
He did not leave the middle of the road . 
He did not try to run . 
He trudged on , his aching eyes focused straight ahead . 
He was nearing the Admassy house . 
He was going to make it , he told himself . 
And then he heard a car coming from the east , and he felt as if he would break down and weep . 
" Oh , no , not again " , he said aloud . 
" Not again so soon " . 
There was a new sound , a sound as piercing as the Rebel yell , yet different . 
It was the sound of a siren . 
Now he saw that the approaching car was painted white , and he began to wave his arms frantically . 
It was the prowl car from the sheriff 's office . 
The car drew up alongside him and stopped . 
" Get in " , Charley Estes said brusquely . 
He staggered into the back seat and lay back , fighting for breath . 
There was someone in front with the sheriff . 
It was Pete Holmes , the cabdriver . 
Pete turned around and said to Marty , " I guess you think I 'm a yellow-bellied hound . 
But there was n't no use in me staying there . 
I could n't fight a dozen or so of 'em . 
If I 'd stayed , all that I 'd have got was four punctured tires and one busted head . 
Why did n't you wait at the Burch house ? ? 
You must 've known I 'd gone to get the sheriff . 
I was lucky they let me go , I guess " . 
The sheriff was occupied with maneuvering the car around in a very narrow space . 
When it was finally pointed east , he said , " You should never have come out here alone . 
This is redneck country . 
Every man in every one of these houses is a Night Rider . 
