Harbor Point sticks out into the ocean like the fat neck of a steamer clam . 
It 's a rich village but not much for action -- too many solid residents , not enough tourists or working stiffs . 
It 's at the far end of the county and the last time I came here was for a hit and run manslaughter -- about seven months ago . 
Chief Bob Moore looked his same hick-self ; ; a man mountain running to lard in his middle-age . 
Seeing me he said with real surprise , " Well , well , ai n't we honored ! ! 
Hardly expected the head of County Homicide up for this murder . 
You sure climbed fast , Jed . 
Rookie investigator last summer and now it 's Inspector Jed . 
Took me 19 years to become Chief of our three man police force . 
Proves a college education pays off " . 
His sarcasm was followed by a stupid grin of his thick mouth and bad teeth . 
" I guess it helps " , I said , paying no attention to his ribbing . 
" Never could figure out why you ever wanted to be a cop , Jed . 
You 're not only young but well , you do n't even look like a police officer . 
A runt with narrow shoulders and that brush haircut hell , you 'd pass for a juvenile delinquent of the hotrod set . 
In my day the first requirement for a cop was to look like the law , big and tough . 
Man , when my 275 pounds and six-four comes along , why it 's the same as another badge . 
When I say move , a guy moves " ! ! 
" Do n't worry about my being tough , Moore . 
Also , it 's far too early in the day for corny lines like the bigger they come You 've had your gassy lecture , let 's get to work . 
Who was the murdered woman Mrs. Buck " ? ? 
" Widow , nice sort of woman . 
Comfortably fixed . 
Ran a fair-sized farm . 
Came to the Harbor as a bride and Do n't worry Jed , this one is in the bag . 
I know the killer , have the only road off the peninsula covered " . 
" Yeah , passed your road block as I drove in " , I said , sitting on his polished desk . 
Although Bob dressed like a slob , he kept a neat office . 
" Okay , what happened " ? ? 
" About nine this morning Mrs. Buck phones me she 's having trouble with one of her farm hands -- money trouble . 
Colored fellow named Tim Williams -- only hand she has working for her now . 
Tim come with the migratory workers that follow the crops up from the South last year , but Tim and his wife settled here . 
Never had no trouble with him before , thought he was a hard worker , hustling around to get a full week 's work . 
Anyway , Julia asks me to . 
" " Julia " ? ? 
" Come on , Inspector , look alive . 
Julia Buck , the deceased " , Moore said , slipping me his smug , idiot-grin again . 
" Julia asks me to come out at once . 
But she did n't sound real alarmed you know , like there was any immediate danger . 
I got there at 9:47 A.M. , found her strangled . 
I would have come sooner if I 'd known . 
No doubt about Tim being the killer -- I have a witness . 
Do n't know why the County had to send anybody up here . 
Told them I can handle this " . 
" Yeah , seems you have a nice package , with all the strings tied . 
Who 's " ? ? 
" I 'll collar Tim before night " . 
" Who 's your witness " ? ? 
" Julia had -- has -- an old Indian woman cooking for her -- Nellie Harris . 
Probably the last of the original Island Indians . 
Nellie was in the kitchen , had just come to work , when she heard Tim arguing with Julia in the living room . 
Swears she recognized his voice , that Tim yelled , ' It 's my money and I want it ' ! ! 
And then rushed out of the house . 
Then she heard Julia phone me . 
Nellie went on with her house work -- until I found Julia dead . 
And before you say it , Nellie ai n't near strong enough to have strangled Julia . 
There 's no doubt this Tim sneaked back and killed Mrs. Buck . 
Another fact : Tim 's disappeared -- on the run . 
But there 's no way off the Point except through my road block . 
Guess you want to see the body -- have her up the street in Doc Abel 's office " . 
" Let 's see it " . 
We walked up Main Street to this big white house , then around to the back . 
Being the Harbor 's sole doctor , Abel was also its Medical Examiner . 
The corpse was on a table , covered by a sheet . 
Doc Abel was busy up front with some of his live patients . 
Pulling back the sheet , I examined the bruises around Julia Buck 's once slender throat . 
Powerful hands had killed her . 
" Find any prints " ? ? 
Chief Moore shook his big head , seemed lost in thought as he stared at the nude body . 
Then he said , " Never noticed it before I mean , when she was dressed but for a woman her age , Julia had a real fine figure " . 
I dropped the sheet , glanced at my watch . 
It was almost one and I had n't had lunch . 
Still , I wanted to get this over with , had a lot of paper work waiting in my own office . 
I told him , " I want to go see the Buck house " . 
" Sure " . 
Walking back down Main Street , I said , " I saw the Harbor 's one squad car at the road block , we 'll ride out in my car " . 
" Naw , we 'll use mine " , Moore said , opening the door of a sleek white Jaguar roadster . 
As I slid in beside him he said , " Some heap , hey ? ? 
Got a heck of a buy on this , dirt cheap " . 
" Yeah , it 's a real load " , I told him , looking up the street at my battered Ford . 
Five racing minutes later we pulled into the driveway of this typical two-story house , and when the Jaguar stopped I managed to swallow . 
There was a garage and a modern barn in the rear , all of it standing between two large flat fields planted in early potatoes . 
Everything shouted gentleman farming , the kind of grandfather-father-to-son folding money the Point is known for . 
The fins of a Caddy were sticking out of the garage , while the inside of the house was a comfortable mixture of old and expensive contemporary furniture . 
Nellie Harris was n't old , she was ancient -- a tiny shriveled woman with a face like a tan prune . 
She was also stone deaf in her right ear . 
She calmly repeated what Moore had told me . 
When I asked , " Why did n't you go into the living room to see how Mrs. Buck was " ? ? 
The old gal stared at me with her hard eyes , said , " She did n't call . 
I do the living room last . 
I went up stairs and did the bath and her bedroom -- way I always do in the morning " . 
" Have you any idea what this Tim and Mrs. Buck were arguing about " ? ? 
" Probably wages . 
Miss Julia was a hard woman with a dollar . 
Years ago when I asked her to put me in Social Security , so 's I would n't have to be working now , Miss Julia threatened to fire me -- all because it would mean a few more dollars a year to her " . 
" Did you hear Tim return " ? ? 
" No sir . 
Nobody came until Chief Moore " . 
I drummed on the kitchen table with my pencil . 
" Mrs. Buck have any men friends " ? ? 
" Her " ? ? 
The wrinkled mouth laughed , revealing astonishingly strong , white , teeth . 
" I never see none . 
But then I was n't her social secretary " . 
" Was she on friendly terms with other members of her family " ? ? 
" Did n't have no family -- around here . 
They had a son -- killed in the war " . 
I walked into the living room . 
There did n't seem to be any signs of a struggle . 
I told Moore , " Where does Tim 's wife live " ? ? 
" I 'll take you there . 
Look Jed , this is an open and shut case and I have to relieve my men at the road block soon . 
Okay , come on " . 
We did 80 miles an hour across a hard dirt road to a cluster of shacks . 
In late summer migratory workers lived five and six to a room in these . 
Now they were empty , except for a cottage across the road . 
Mrs. Tim Williams was about 21 , with skin the color of bitter chocolate , and if you discounted the plain dress and worn slippers , she was startlingly pretty . 
The inside of their place was full of new furniture , five bucks down and a buck a week stuff , but all of it clean and full of the warmth of a home . 
Mrs. Williams was both sullen and frightened . 
She said she did n't know a thing -- Tim had left the house at six in the morning , as usual . 
She had n't seen him since . 
" Did Mrs. Buck owe him any wages " ? ? 
I asked . 
" Well , for this week , but they was n't due 'till Saturday . 
Listen , Mr. Inspector , no matter what anybody say , my Tim did n't kill that woman ! ! 
Tim is a good man , hard working . 
He strong as a bull but gentle as a baby . 
Even if he angry , Tim would n't hurt a woman . 
He never in his life took a hand to a woman or " " We 'll get him soon , see what he says " , Chief Moore cut in . 
" Does your husband have a car " ? ? 
I asked . 
" Got us an old station wagon . 
Need it for the job " . 
I asked a silly question : " You 've no idea where your husband could be , now " ? ? 
She shook her head . 
I knew she was lying . 
I stood there , staring at her for a moment -- thinking mostly of her beauty and her poverty . 
Moore said , " Come on , Jed , I have to get to my men " . 
On my way out I told her , " If you should eh just happen to see your husband , get him to give himself up . 
He 'll get a fair trial . 
Hiding out like this wo n't get him anything , except more trouble , or a bullet " . 
" Yes . 
I 'll tell him -- if I see him " . 
We made it back to the Harbor in less than four minutes . 
I tried not to act scared . 
That Jaguar could really barrel along . 
I told Moore I was going to eat , get some forms filled out by Doc Abel . 
Chief Moore said , " If I do n't see you when I return , see you for certain at my road block , Inspector " . 
I had a bowl of decent chowder , phoned the Doc and he said he 'd leave the death statements with his girl -- in a half hour . 
Lighting my pipe , I took a walk . 
The Harbor is a big yachting basin in the summer . 
Even now , there were several slick cruisers tied to the dock , an ocean-going yawl anchored inside the breakwater . 
There was a 34 foot Wheeler with Chief Bob 's in big gold letters on its stern also tied up at the dock . 
It was n't a new boat , about five years old , but fitted with fishing outriggers and chairs . 
I asked an old guy running a fishing station if the boat was Moore 's . 
He said , " You bet . 
Bob Moore is plumb crazy about blue fishing " . 
I dropped into the doctor 's office , picked up my forms . 
As I was walking back to the Police Station , which was in the same building with the City Hall and Post Office , I saw Mrs. Tim Williams sneaking into the back of my car . 
If she moved gracefully , she was clumsy at it . 
I got into the front seat . 
She was ' hiding ' on the floor of the back seat , the soft curves of her back and hips -- rousing lines . 
I drove out of the Harbor , turned off into a dirt road among the scrub pine trees and stopped . 
I waited a few minutes and she sat up . 
For another moment we did n't talk , then she began to weep . 
She mumbled , " I just know that Chief Moore is out to kill my Tim " ! ! 
" Maybe . 
I never saw him so anxious before " , I said , lighting my pipe and offering her a cigarette . 
" Of course , it could be because this is his first murder case . 
You know where Tim is , do n't you , Mrs. Williams " ? ? 
She puffed on the cigarette slowly , sitting slumped against the back seat ; ; did n't answer . 
