Maude 's long nose unexpectedly wrinkled up . 
" Happened to be in the hall ! ! 
Happened to hear you quarrel about her ! ! 
Oh , well , you ca n't really blame Lolotte . 
She lost her beau to you " . 
But she was talking of Emile when she saw the black line of the open door ; ; Sarah remembered it clearly . 
Maude went on . 
" I 've got to get busy . 
Miss Celie 's taken to her bed , with the door locked . 
She opened it an inch and poked out the keys for me to give you . 
Here " -- She thrust a bundle of keys strung on a thick red cord into Sarah 's hand . 
" Not that there 's much use in locking up the smokehouse and the storehouse now . 
Drink your coffee " -- coffee . 
" It 's -- cold " . 
Maude suddenly looked quite capable of pouring it down her throat . 
" I do n't want it " , Sarah said , firmly . 
" Oh . 
Well -- I 'll take it down with me as I go " . 
Maude swooped up the cup and hiked up her top hoop as if about to take off with a racing start . 
At the door she turned back , her Roman nose looking very long now and satiric . 
" I forgot . 
Ben and Lucien have gone after them . 
It 's just like that book your Northern friend wrote -- except there are n't any ice floes to cross and no bloodhounds " . 
" I do n't know Mrs. Stowe . 
What can they do if they find them " ? ? 
" They ca n't do anything . 
It 's silly , childish , running after them like that . 
I told Ben so . 
But of course the paterollers wo n't be of any help , not with everything so upset and that Yankee cavalry outfit they say is running around , God knows where " . 
She had swished away , she had been gone for a long time probably when Sarah suddenly realized that she ought to stop her , pour out the coffee , so no one would drink it . 
But then the so-called coffee was bad enough at best , cold it was all but undrinkable -- especially that cup ! ! 
She was deeply , horribly sure that Lucien had filled it with opium . 
She had quarreled with Lucien , she had resisted his demands for money -- and if she died , by the provisions of her marriage contract , Lucien would inherit legally not only the immediate sum of gold under the floorboards in the office , but later , when the war was over , her father 's entire estate . 
She felt cold and hot , sticky and chilly at the same time . 
Now wait a minute , she told herself , think about it ; ; Lucien is not the only person in this house who could have put opium in that coffee . 
She had lost a bottle of opium -- but that was on the trip from New Orleans . 
Or someone had taken it during her first day at Honotassa . 
Yes , she had missed it after her talk with Emile , after dinner , just before Emile was shot . 
Rilly or Glendora had entered her room while she slept , bringing back her washed clothes . 
So somebody else could have come in , too -- then or later while she was out of the room . 
It would have been easy to identify as opium by its odor . 
It was not very reasonable to believe that Lucien had procured unprocurable opium and come back to Honotassa with a formed plan to murder her . 
He did n't even know that she was there . 
And he certainly could n't have guessed that she would resist his demand for the gold or that she was not the yielding -- yes , and credible fool he had every right to expect . 
No , he had been surprised , unpleasantly surprised , but surprised . 
Then somebody else ? ? 
Do n't question , Rev had said , do n't invite danger . 
Her skin crawled : Lolotte had told Maude that she was in the hall and the door was open . 
Sarah had begun to tell Lucien of Emile , she had begun to question and a little draft had crept across the room from the bedroom door , open barely enough to show a rim of blackness in the hall . 
So Lolotte -- or anybody -- could have listened , and that somebody could have already been supplied with the missing bottle of opium . 
That was not reasonable either . 
The opium had disappeared before Emile 's death and whoever shot him could not by any stretch of the imagination have foreseen Sarah 's own doubts and suspicions -- and questions . 
She began to doubt whether there had been in fact a lethal dose of opium in the cup . 
So suppose somebody only wished to frighten her , so she would leave Honotassa ! ! 
That made a certain amount of logic . 
Added to the argument was the fact that while she might have tasted the coffee if it had been still hot , she might even have drunk some of it , she would n't have taken enough to kill her , for she would have been warned by its taste . 
No . 
It was merely an attempt to frighten her . 
She would n't go back to New York as Maude suggested ; ; she would n't run like a scared cat . 
But -- well , she 'd be very careful . 
She dressed and the accustomed routine restored to her a sense of normal everyday life . 
But before she left her room she dug into her big moire bag , took out the envelope holding her marriage contract and the wax seal had been broken . 
So somebody else knew what would happen to her father 's money if she died . 
Rev had known all along . 
Rev did n't need to break the wax seal , read the contract and find out . 
He could conceivably have wished to make sure ; ; Rev loved Honotassa , it was like a part of his breath and body ; ; Rev had stressed the need for money . 
Rev would never have tried to give her poison ! ! 
She thrust the envelope back in the bag ; ; there was no point in locking it up in the armoire now , it was like locking the barn after the horse was stolen . 
And in all likelihood , by now , there was more than one person in the house who knew the terms of her marriage contract . 
There was no point either in telling herself again what a fool she 'd been . 
She went downstairs and received another curious shock , for when Glendora flapped into the dining room in her homemade moccasins , Sarah asked her when she had brought coffee to her room and Glendora said she had n't . 
" Too much work this morning , Miss Sarah -- everybody gone like that " -- Sarah swallowed past another kind of constriction in her throat . 
" Well , then who brought it " ? ? 
" Miss Maude . 
She come to the kitchen and say she take it up to you " . 
Glendora put down a dish of lukewarm rice . 
" Not much breakfast this morning . 
I do n't know what we 're going to do , Miss Sarah " . 
" We 've got to eat " , Sarah said , curtly , because a chill crawled over her again . 
Maude ? ? 
Glendora flapped away . 
The rice was n't dosed with opium , indeed it had no taste at all , not a grain of salt . 
She ate what she could and went out along the covered passageway , with the rain dripping from the vines . 
In the kitchen Glendora was despairingly picking chickens . 
" Get a basket " , Sarah told her . 
" We 'll go to the storehouse " . 
Glendora dropped a chicken and a flurry of feathers , and went with her through the drizzle , to the storehouse . 
Sarah found the right key and unlocked the door . 
It was a long , low room , like a root cellar , for it was banked up with soil , and vines had run rampant over that , too . 
It was dark but dry and cool . 
She doled out what Glendora vaguely guessed were the right amounts of dried peas , eggs , cornmeal , a little salt . 
The shelves looked emptier than when Miss Celie had shown her the storeroom , and since the men from the Commissary had called ; ; there were certainly now fewer mouths to feed but there was less to feed them with . 
She took Glendora to the smokehouse , unlocked it and saw with satisfaction there was still a quantity of hams and sides of bacon , hanging from the smoke-stained rafters . 
They would n't go hungry , not yet . 
And the fields were green and growing . 
" Ca n't you possibly imagine what life is going to be like , here " ? ? 
Maude had said . 
Maude . 
She sent Glendora back to the house , her basket and her apron laden . 
She stood for a moment , rain dripping from the trees over her head , thinking of Maude . 
Maude had the opportunity to take the bottle of opium from Sarah 's room . 
Maude had the cool ruthlessness to do whatever she made up her mind to do . 
She could n't see how her death could affect Maude . 
She could n't see any reason why Maude would attempt to frighten her . 
Besides , there was something hysterical and silly , something almost childish about an attempt to frighten her . 
Maude was neither hysterical nor silly and Sarah rather doubted if she had ever been childish . 
Yet Maude had suggested that Sarah return to New York . 
Maude could have shot Emile -- if she 'd had a reason to kill him . 
There was no use in standing there in the drizzle , trying to find a link between Emile 's murder and opium in a cup of coffee . 
She started back for the house , saw a light in the office , opened the door and surprised a domestic little scene which was far outside the dark realm of murder or attempted murder . 
Rev , George and Lolotte were mending shoes . 
A lighted lamp stood on the table that dusky , drizzling day . 
They were all three bent over a shabby riding boot ; ; George had a tack hammer . 
Lolotte held a patch of leather , Rev steadied something , a tiny brad , waiting for George 's poised hammer . 
George said , " First thing I do when I get to Vicksburg again , is get me a Yankee " -- " With boots on " , Lolotte laughed softly . 
Rev looked up and saw her . 
Lolotte looked up and stiffened . 
George did n't look up at all . 
There was no way to know , no way to guess whether any one of them was surprised at Sarah 's appearance , believing her to be drugged and senseless -- and just possibly dead . 
Rev said , " Come in , Sarah . 
Reckon you know the news " . 
And what news , Sarah thought as satirically as Maude might have said it . 
Rev 's face was suddenly a little fixed and questioning . 
He turned to George and Lolotte . 
" Take your cobbler 's shop somewhere else . 
I want to talk to Sarah " . 
Everything in the office , the spreading circle of lamplight , the patch of leather in Lolotte 's hands . 
George poised with the tack hammer , the homely , everyday atmosphere , all denied an attempt at murder . 
A rush of panic caught Sarah . 
" No . 
Not now . 
I mean I 've got to -- to see to the kitchen . 
Glendora " -- Her words jumbled together and she all but ran from the office and from the question in Rev 's face . 
Now why did I do that ? ? 
She thought as warm , drizzling rain touched her face . 
She was no schoolgirl , refusing to bear tales . 
As she reached the kitchen door the answer presented itself ; ; if she told anyone of the opium it must be Lucien , her husband . 
It might be , indeed it had already proved to be a marriage without love , but it was marriage . 
So she could n't choose Rev as a confidant ; ; it must be Lucien . 
Always provided that Lucien himself had not dosed her coffee with opium , she thought , as coldly and sharply , again , as Maude might have said it . 
She paused at the kitchen door , caught her breath , told herself firmly that the opium was only an attempt to frighten her and went into the kitchen , where Glendora was eyeing the chickens dismally and Maude was cleaning lamp chimneys . 
Glendora gave a gulp . 
" Miss Sarah , I ca n't cut up no chicken . 
Miss Maude say she wo n't " . 
Again the homely , everyday details of daily living refuted a vicious attempt to frighten her -- or to murder her . 
The homely everyday details of living and domestic requirements also pressed upon her with their immediate urgency . 
No matter what had happened or had n't happened , somebody had to see about dinner . 
She eyed the chickens with , if she had known it , something of Glendora 's dismal look and thought with a certain fury of the time she had spent on Latin verbs . 
