" She says she has to finish a story " . 
He shrugged . 
" I asked her why she could n't do it tomorrow , but it seems the muse is working good tonight and she 's afraid to let it go " . 
Casey made some comment , but his mind was busy as he considered the man . 
His name was George Needham and he , too , had come from a good family . 
He was perhaps thirty-two , nicely set up , with light brown hair that had a pronounced wave . 
He was always well groomed and well tailored , and he had that rich man 's look which was authentic enough and came from two good prep schools and a proper university . 
An only child , he had done all the things that young men do who have been born to money and social position until his father double-crossed him by dying broke . 
Since then he had worked at this and that , though some said his main interest was gambling . 
All this went through Casey 's mind in the first instant , but what held his interest was the fact that these two should be together at all . 
For he had understood that Betty had been engaged to a boy named Barry Jenkins . 
She had grown up with young Jenkins , and he had heard that they had been at the point of getting married at least twice . 
He wanted to ask her about Jenkins now , but he knew he could n't do so in Needham 's presence . 
And so , still wondering and a little perplexed , he grinned at the girl and spoke lightly to make sure that she would know he was kidding . 
" Where did you pick him up " ? ? 
" Oh , I 've known him quite a while " . 
She glanced at her companion fondly . 
" Have n't I , George " ? ? 
" I 've been after her for years " , Needham said , " but I 've never been able to get anywhere until the last few days " . 
The girl 's eyes were softly shining as she reached out and touched Casey 's hand . 
" Can I tell you a secret ? ? 
We 're going to get married . 
Do you approve " ? ? 
Casey kept his smile fixed , but some small inner disturbance was working on him as he thought again about Needham , who was eight or ten years older than the girl . 
He wondered whether Needham was going to swear off gambling and get a steady job or whether he was counting on the income from Betty 's estate to subsidize him . 
None of this showed in his face , and he tried to keep his skepticism in hand . 
He made a point of frowning , of acting out the part of the fond father-confessor . 
" I 'll have to give it some thought " , he said . 
" You would n't want me to say yes without making sure his intentions are honorable , would you " ? ? 
She made a face at him and then she laughed . 
" Of course not " . 
" I 'll get my references in order " , Needham said , and though he spoke with a smile , Casey somehow got the idea that he was not particularly amused . 
" Stop by any time , Casey " . 
He stood up and touched the girl 's arm . 
" Come on , darling . 
If you 're really serious about working on that story , I 'd better take you home " . 
Casey watched them go , still frowning absently and then dismissing the matter as he called for his check . 
As he went out he told Freddie the dinner was perfect , and when he got his hat and coat from Nancy Parks and put a fifty-cent piece in the slot , he told her to be sure that it went toward her dowry . 
A taxi took him back to the bar and grill where he had left his car , and a few minutes later he found a parking place across the street from his apartment . 
Because his mind had been otherwise occupied for the past couple of hours , he did not think to look and see if Jerry Burton 's car was still there . 
In fact , he did not think about Jerry Burton at all until he entered his living room and closed the door behind him . 
Only then , when his glance focused on the divan and saw that it was empty , did he remember his earlier problem . 
Even from where he stood he could see the neatly folded blanket that he had spread over Burton , the pillow , the sheet of paper on top of it . 
Then he was striding across the room , his thoughts confused but the worry building swiftly inside him as he snatched up the note . 
Jack : Look in the wastebasket . 
I knew the only way I could beat you was to play possum , but it was a good try , kid , and I appreciate it . 
The wastebasket stood near the wall next to the divan , and the instant Casey picked it up he knew what had happened . 
The discarded papers inside were sodden , there was a glint of liquid at the bottom , and the smell of whisky was strong and distinct . 
He put the basket down distastefully , muttering softly and thoroughly disgusted with himself and his plan that had seemed so foolproof . 
For he remembered too well how he had brought back the loaded drinks to Burton and then returned to the kitchen to get weaker drinks for himself . 
For another second or two he gave in to the annoyance that was directed at himself ; ; then his mind moved on to be confronted by something far more serious , and as the thought expanded , the implications jarred him . 
It no longer mattered that Burton had outsmarted him . 
The important thing was that Burton had gone somewhere to meet a blackmailer with a gun in his pocket . 
And that gun was empty . 
Even before his mind had rounded out the idea , he thrust one hand into his trousers pocket and pulled out the six slugs he had taken from the revolver . 
He considered them with brooding eyes , brows bunched as his brain grappled with the problem and tried to find some solution . 
He said : " The crazy fool " , half aloud . 
He put the shells on the table , as though he could no longer bear to hold them . 
He thought : Where the hell could he have gone ? ? 
How can I find him ? ? 
There was no answer to this and he began to pace back and forth across the room , his imagination out of control . 
He tried to tell himself that maybe Burton had sobered up enough to get some sense . 
Maybe he only intended to scare the blackmailer , whoever he was , in which case an unloaded gun would be good enough . 
He thought of other possibilities , none of them satisfactory , and finally he began to think , to wonder if there was some way he could reach Burton . 
Then , as he turned toward the telephone , it rang shrilly to shatter the stillness in the room and he reached for it eagerly . 
" Yeah " , he said . 
" Casey " ? ? 
" Yeah " . 
" Tony Calenda " . 
Casey heard the voice distinctly and he knew who it was , but it took him a while to make the mental readjustment and control the disturbance inside his head . 
When he heard Calenda say : " What about that picture you took this afternoon " ? ? 
It still took him another few seconds to remember the job he had done for Frank Ackerly . 
" What picture " ? ? 
He demanded . 
" You took a picture of me at the corner of Washington and Blake about three thirty this afternoon " . 
" Who says so " ? ? 
" One of my boys " . 
Casey believed that much . 
Calenda was not the sort who walked around without one of his " boys " close at hand . 
" So " ? ? 
" With my trial coming up in Federal Court next week I would n't want that picture published " . 
" Who says it 's going to be published " ? ? 
" I would n't even want it to get around " . 
Under normal circumstances Casey was a little fussy when people told him what to do with pictures he had taken . 
Even so , he generally listened and was usually reasonable to those who voiced their objections properly . 
Right now , however , he was still too worried about Jerry Burton , and the gun that had no bullets , and the story Burton had told him , to care too much about Tony Calenda . 
His nerves were getting a little ragged and his impatience put an edge in his voice . 
" Look " , he said . 
" I was hired to take a picture . 
I took it . 
That 's all I know about it and that 's all I care " . 
" Maybe you 'd better tell the guy who hired you what I said " . 
" You tell him " . 
" All right " , Calenda said , his voice still quiet . 
" But I meant what I said , Casey . 
If that picture gets around and I find out you had anything to do with it , I 'm going to send a couple of my boys around to see you " . 
" You do that " , Casey said . 
" Just be sure to send your two best boys , Tony " . 
He hung up with a bang , annoyed at himself for running off at the mouth like that but still terribly concerned with the situation he had helped to create . 
As soon as he could think logically again he reached for the telephone directory and found Jerry Burton 's home number . 
He dialed it and listened to it ring ten times before he hung up . 
He called the bar and grill where he had picked Burton up that afternoon . 
When he was told that no one had seen Burton since then , he thought of three other places that were possibilities . 
Each time he got the same answer and in the end he gave up . 
By the time he had smoked three cigarettes he had calmed down . 
He had done all he could and that was that . 
And anyway Burton was not the kind of guy who would be likely to get in trouble even when he was drunk . 
He , Casey , had been scared for a while , but that had come mostly from the fact that he felt responsible . 
He should have stayed here and watched Burton . 
He did n't . 
So he made a mistake . 
So what ? ? 
He kept telling himself this as he went out to the kitchen to make a drink . 
Only then did he decide he did n't want one . 
He considered opening a can of beer but vetoed that idea too . 
Finally he went into the bedroom and sat down to take off his shoes . 
He had just finished unlacing the right one when the telephone rang again . 
When he snatched it up the voice that came to him was quick and urgent . 
" Casey ? ? 
You do n't know me but I know you . 
If you want a picture get to the corner of Adams and Clark just as fast as you can . 
If you hurry you might beat the headquarters boys " . 
Casey heard the click of the distant receiver before he could open his mouth , and it took him no more than three seconds to make his decision . 
For over the years he had received many such calls . 
Some of them came from people who identified themselves . 
Some telephoned because he had done them a favor in the past . 
Others because they expected some sort of reward for the information . 
A few passed along a tip for the simple reason that they liked him and wanted to give him a break . 
Only an occasional tip turned out to be a phony , and , like the police , Casey had made a point of running down all such suggestions and he did not hesitate this time . 
He was in his car with his camera and equipment bag in less than two minutes , and it took him only three more to reach the corner , a block from Columbus Avenue . 
It was a district of small factories and loft buildings and occasional tenements , and he could see the police radio car as he rounded the corner and slammed on the brakes . 
He did not bother with his radio -- there would be time for that later -- but as he scrambled out on the pavement he saw the filling station and the public telephone booth and knew instantly how he had been summoned . 
The police car had pulled up behind a small sedan , its headlights still on . 
