" Right " , said the fingerprint man . 
" Also , if you 're going to believe those prints , you 'll have to look for a killer who 's a top-grade piano player " . 
He demonstrated by playing an imaginary piano , doing a staccato passage with a broadly exaggerated attack . 
To make it clearer he shifted to acting out , but with no change of manner , the killing of Rose Mallory . 
His hands snatched at an imaginary bucket , swooping down hard to grab it and coming away with equal snap like a ball that 's been bounced hard . 
In the same way he pantomimed grasping a mantel and bouncing cleanly off that , pressing his hands against the floor and bouncing cleanly off that . 
He was moving like a ballet dancer , playing for laughs . 
If Rose Mallory 's killer acted this way , catching up with him was going to be a cinch . 
We 'd know him by his stretch pants and the flowers he 'd wear twined in his hair . 
Perhaps if Felix had first come upon us when this boy was not cavorting so gaily up and down the hall outside the murdered woman 's apartment , we might have had less trouble convincing Felix of our seriousness . 
This , you will remember , was still New Year 's Day . 
By the time Felix turned up it was early afternoon , which , one would think , would be late enough so that by then , except for small children and a few hardy souls who had not yet sobered up , it could have been expected that people would no longer be having any sort of active interest in the previous night 's noisemakers and paper hats . 
Felix was the exception . 
He had retained his hat and his horn , and , whatever fun might still be going , he was ready to join it . 
That , incidentally , might give you some idea of what Felix was like . 
After all , he had n't happened upon us in that second-floor hall without warning . 
The M.E. 's boys had finished their on-the-spot examination and the body had been removed for autopsy . 
The meat wagon , therefore , was not out in front of the house any more , but the cluster of squad cars was still there and there was a cop on the door downstairs to screen any comings and goings . 
There was , furthermore , the crowd of curious onlookers gathered in the street and a couple more cops to hold them at a decent distance . 
Just put yourself in Felix 's place for a moment . 
You 're a taxpayer , householder , landlord . 
You 've been away from home for the New Year festivities , but now the party is over and you come home . 
Defining sobriety in the limited sense of being free from the clinical symptoms of the effects of alcohol ingested and not yet eliminated from the system , you are sober . 
You still have your paper hat and you 're wearing it , but then , it is an extraordinary paper hat and , in addition to anything else you may be , you are also the sculptor who created that most peculiar dame out in the back yard . 
It 's not too much to assume that you will have a more lasting interest in paper hats than will Mr. Average Citizen . 
You have your paper horn clutched in your big , craggy fist , and for your entrance you have planned a noisy , colorful and exuberant greeting to your friends and tenants . 
You find your house a focus of public and police attention . 
Can you imagine yourself forgetting under the circumstances that you are approaching this startling and unexpected situation so unsuitably hatted and armed with a paper horn ? ? 
Maybe one could be startled into forgetfulness . 
You shoulder your way through the cluster of the curious and you barge up to the cop on the door . 
You identify yourself and ask him what 's going on . 
Instead of answering you , he sticks his head in the door and shouts up the stairs . 
" Got the upstairs guy " , he bellows . 
" The owner . 
Do I send him up " ? ? 
Then he turns back to you . 
" Go on in " , he says . 
" They 'll tell you what 's cooking " . 
Even then , as you go into the house oppressed by the knowledge that something is cooking and that your house has passed under this unaccountable , official control , could you go on forgetting that you still had that ridiculous hat on your head and you were still carrying that childish horn in your hand ? ? 
What I 'm getting at is that we were fully prepared for Felix 's being an odd one . 
We 'd seen his handiwork out in the back yard , and the little his tenants had told us of him did make him sound a little special . 
We were not , however , prepared for anything like the apparition that confronted us as Felix came up the stairs . 
He , of course , must have been equally unprepared for what confronted him , but , nonetheless , I did find his reaction startling . 
If Felix was still wearing the hat and carrying the horn because he 'd forgotten about them , he now remembered . 
He came bounding up the stairs and joined the dance . 
He adjusted the hat , lifted the horn to his lips as though it were a flute , and fell in alongside our fingerprint expert to cavort with him . 
Our man stopped dead and glowered at Felix . 
Felix threw his head back and laughed a laugh that shook the timbers of even that solidly built old house . 
This was a bull of a man . 
He was big-chested , big-shouldered and heavy-armed . 
His face was ruddy and heavy and unlined , and when he laughed he showed his teeth , which were big and white and strong and unquestionably home-grown . 
I do n't remember ever seeing teeth that were quite so white and at the same time quite so emphatically not dentures . 
His hair had receded most of the way to the back of his neck . 
He had only a fringe of hair and he wore it cropped short . 
It was almost as white as his teeth . 
For a man of his mass he was curiously short . 
He was n't a dwarf but he was a bit of a comic figure . 
A man with so big and so staggeringly developed a torso and such long and powerful arms is expected to stand taller than five feet five . 
For Felix it was a bit of a stretch to make even that measurement . 
The man was just this side of being a freak . 
We waited till he had finished laughing , and that gave us a few moments for taking stock of him . 
He was dressed in a manner Esquire might suggest for the outdoor man 's country weekend . 
Dark gray sports jacket , lighter gray slacks , pink flannel shirt , black silk necktie . 
His eyes were clear . 
He was freshly shaved , and if there had been any alcohol in him we could never have missed detecting some scent of it on the massive gusts of his laughter . 
Not even a whiff . 
Eventually he subsided . 
" Felix " ? ? 
Gibby said . 
" Me " , he said merrily . 
" Me , the happy one " . 
" That much Latin we remember " , Gibby said dryly . 
" You always live up to your name , always like this , always making happy " ? ? 
" I try " , Felix said blithely . 
" The world is full of blokes who put their hearts into making the tragic scene . 
I 've never noticed that it improves things any " . 
" Bully for you " , Gibby said . 
" What 's the rest of your name " ? ? 
" No rest of it . 
Felix is all there is " . 
" All there ever was " ? ? 
" The past I leave to historians " , Felix intoned , demonstrating that he could be pompous as well as happy . 
" You live in the present " ? ? 
" In the present " , Felix proclaimed . 
" For the future . 
Is there any other time in which a man can live " ? ? 
" We " , Gibby announced , " are not philosophers . 
We are Assistant District Attorneys . 
This gentleman is a police officer . 
He is a fingerprint specialist . 
Could your future , your immediate future , be made to include taking us upstairs , giving us a bit of space in which our friend can work , and making available to him your finger tips " ? ? 
The happy one could never have looked happier . 
This was more than joy . 
It was ecstasy . 
" Those lovely whorls " , he chortled . 
" So intricate , so beautiful . 
Come right along . 
I love fingerprints " . 
He was prancing along the hall , heading for the next flight of stairs . 
Gibby called him back . 
" We 're here because of what happened last night " , he said . 
" Past , yes , but important . 
Since it is important , for the record let 's have the full name " . 
" That important " ? ? 
Felix asked . 
" That important " . 
" Grubb " , Felix whispered . 
" Felix Grubb " ? ? 
Gibby asked , not bothering to whisper . 
" Shh " , Felix implored . 
" I ca n't see what would make it necessary for you to know . 
Nothing could make it necessary to proclaim it to the whole world " . 
Obligingly Gibby lowered his voice . 
" Felix Grubb " ? ? 
He repeated . 
" No . 
Edmund , but not for years . 
For years it 's been just Felix . 
First thing I did after my twenty-first birthday was go into court and have it officially changed , and this is something I do n't tell everybody . 
That was almost forty years ago " . 
Having volunteered that he was a man of about sixty , he bounded up the stairs and with each leap rendered the number less credible . 
This was a broth of a boy , our Felix , and nothing was more obvious than the joy he took in demonstrating how agile he was and how full of juice and spirit . 
We followed him up the stairs . 
The cops would gather up Connor and the foursome on the third floor and bring us those of them who would voluntarily submit to fingerprinting . 
You may think we did n't need Nancy and Jean , but you always get what you can when you can , and we had no guarantee that a fingerprint record on them could n't be useful before we were through with this case . 
Also , if we had excluded the ladies we would have to that extent let the whole world know at least that much of where we stood . 
The killer , if in our present group , would certainly be interested in knowing that much , and even though with the fingerprint evidence what it was I could see no way he could use this bit of information to improve on his situation , there might always be some way . 
If you can possibly avoid it , you do n't hand out any extra chances . 
Felix took us into his studio . 
It was that oddly shaped space at the very top of the house , where ceiling heights had to accommodate themselves to the varying angles of roof slope . 
At each angle of its pitch a big skylight had been fitted into the roof and all these skylights were fitted with systems of multiple screens and shades . 
When Felix first opened the door on it , all these shades were tightly drawn and the whole studio was as dark as night . 
He quickly fixed that , rolling back the shades on some of the skylights and adjusting screens on the others . 
He flew about the place making these adjustments and it was obvious that what he was doing was the fruit of long experience . 
None of his movements was tentative . 
There was no process of trial and error . 
Starting with the room completely blacked out , as it was when we came in , he unerringly fixed things so that the whole place was bathed in the maximum of light without at any point admitting even so much as a crack of glare . 
Expecting something more-than-average wacky , I was surprised by what we found . 
There was no display of either works in progress or of finished work . 
Here and there on work table or pedestal stood a shape with a sheet or a tarpaulin draped over it . 
These shapes might have been mad , but there was no telling . 
They were all completely shrouded . 
The equipment was solid and heavy and in good condition . 
Everything was orderly and it seemed to be arranged for the workman 's comfort , convenience and efficiency . 
There were tools about but they were neatly kept . 
There was no confusion and no litter . 
Supplies of sheet metal were neatly stacked in bins . 
