This was not , for the Angel , just a matter of running through a logical or deductive chain , or deciding on some action from some already established premise . 
No doubt the Angels could do that kind of thing as fast as any computer . 
What Gabriel was being asked to do now , however , was to re-examine all his basic assumptions , make value-judgments on them , and give them new and different powers in his mind to govern his motives . 
This is not wholly a reasoning process -- a computer can not do it all -- and even in an Angel it takes time . 
( Or , perhaps , especially in an Angel , whose assumptions had mostly been fixed millions of years ago . 
) Being reasonably sure of the reason for the long pause , however , did not make it seem any less long to Jack . 
He had already become used to Hesperus ' snapping back answers to questions almost before Jack could get them asked . 
There was nothing he could do but wait . 
The dice were cast . 
At last Gabriel spoke . 
" We misjudged you " , he said slowly . 
" We had concluded that no race as ephemeral as yours could have had time to develop a sense of justice . 
Of course we have before us the example of the great races at the galactic center ; ; individually they are nearly as mortal as you -- the difference does not seem very marked to us , where it exists . 
But they have survived for long periods as races , whereas you are young . 
We shall recommend to them that they shorten your trial period by half . 
" For now , it is clear that we were in the wrong . 
You may reclaim your property , and the penalty on Hesperus is lifted . 
Hesperus , you may speak " . 
" I did not perceive this essential distinction either , First-Born " , Hesperus said at once , " I was only practicing a concept that Jack taught me , called a deal " . 
" Nevertheless , you were its agent . 
Jack , what is the nature of this concept " ? ? 
" It 's a kind of agreement in which each party gives something to the other " , Jack said . 
" We regard it as fair only when each party feels that what he has received is as valuable , or more valuable , than what he has given " . 
His heart , he discovered , was pounding . 
" For instance , Hesperus agreed to help me find my property , and I agreed to take him to Earth . 
Between individuals , this process is called bargaining . 
When it is done between races or nations , it is called making a treaty . 
And the major part of my mission to your nest is to make a treaty between your race and mine . 
Recovering the property was much less important " . 
" Strange " , Gabriel said . 
" And apparently impossible . 
Though it might be that we would have much to give you , you have nothing to give us " . 
" Hesperus and Lucifer " , Jack said , " show that we do " . 
Another pause ; ; but this one was not nearly as long . 
" Then it is a matter of pleasure ; ; of curiosity ; ; of a more alive time . 
Yes , those could be commodities under this concept . 
But you should understand , Jack , that Hesperus and Lucifer are not long out of the nursery . 
Visiting the Earth would not be an offering of worth to those of us who are older " . 
This explained a great deal . 
" All the more reason , then " , Jack said , " why we must have a treaty . 
We will gladly entertain your young and give them proper living quarters , in return for their help in running our fusion reactors . 
But we must know if this is in accordance with your customs , and must have your agreement they will not misuse the power we put in their hands , to our hurt " . 
" But this simply requires that they behave in accordance with the dictates of their own natures , and respect yours in turn . 
To this we of course agree " . 
Jack felt a wave of complete elation , but in a second it had vanished without a trace . 
What Gabriel was asking was that mankind forego all its parochial moral judgments , and contract to let the Angels serve on Earth as it is in Heaven regardless of the applicable Earth laws . 
The Angels in turn would exercise similar restraints in respect for the natural preferences and natures of the Earthmen -- but they had no faintest notion of man 's perverse habit of passing and enforcing laws which were contrary to his own preferences and violations of his nature . 
The simple treaty principle that Gabriel was asking him to ratify , in short , was nothing less than total trust . 
Nothing less would serve . 
And it might be , considering the uncomfortable custom the Angels had of thinking of everything in terms of absolutes , that the proposal of anything less might well amount instead to something like a declaration of war . 
Furthermore , even the highly trained law clerk who was a part of Jack 's total make-up could not understand how the principle could ever be codified . 
Almost the whole experience of mankind pointed toward suspicion , not trust , as the safest and sanest attitude toward all outsiders . 
Yet there was some precedent for it . 
The history of disarmament agreements , for instance , had been unreassuringly dismal ; ; but the United States and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics nevertheless did eventually agree on an atomic bomb test ban , and a sort of provisional acceptance of each other 's good intentions on this limited question . 
Out of that agreement , though not by any easy road , eventually emerged the present world hegemony of the United Nations ; ; suspicion between member states still existed , but it was of about the same low order of virulence as the twentieth-century rivalry between Arizona and California over water supplies . 
Besides , agreements " in principle " , with the petty details to be thrashed out later , were commonplace in diplomatic history . 
The trouble with them was that they almost never worked , and in fact an agreement " in principle " historically turned out to be a sure sign that neither party really wanted the quarrel settled . 
Suppose that this one were to work ? ? 
There was no question in Jack 's mind of the good faith on one side , at least . 
If mankind could be convinced of that It was worth trying . 
In fact , it had to be tried . 
It would be at once the most tentative and most final treaty that Earth had ever signed . 
Secretary Hart had taught Jack , at least partially , to be content with small beginnings in all diplomatic matters ; ; but there was no small way to handle this one . 
He turned back to the screens , the crucial , conclusive phrase on his lips . 
But he was too late . 
He had lost his audience . 
For a moment he could make no sense at all of what he saw . 
It seemed to be only a riot of color , light and meaningless activity . 
Gradually , he realized that the pentagon of Angel elders had vanished , and that the ritual learning dance of the nursery had been broken up . 
The Angels in the nursery were zigzagging wildly in all directions , seemingly at random . 
" Hesperus ! ! 
What 's going on here ? ? 
What 's happened " ? ? 
" Your brothers have been found . 
They are on their way here " . 
" Where ? ? 
I do n't see them . 
The instruments do n't show them " . 
" You ca n't see them yet , Jack . 
They 'll be in range in a short while " . 
Jack scanned the skies , the boards , and the skies again . 
Nothing . 
No -- there was a tiny pip on the radar ; ; and it was getting bigger rapidly . 
If that was the skiff , it was making unprecedented speed . 
Then the skiff hove into sight , just a dot of light at first against the roiling blackness and crimson streaks of the Coal Sack . 
Through the telescope , Jack could see that both spacesuits were still attached to it . 
The sail was still unfurled , though there were a good many holes in it , as Langer had predicted would be the case by now . 
It was a startling , almost numenous sight ; ; but even more awesome was the fact that it was trailing an enormous comet's-tail of Angels . 
The skiff was not heading for the nursery , however . 
It seemed unlikely that her crew , if either of them were alive , could even see the Ariadne , for they were passing her at a distance of nearly a light-year . 
And there would be no chance of signaling them -- without the Nernst generator Jack could not send a call powerful enough to get through all the static , and by the time he could rebuild his fusion power the skiff would be gone . 
Fuming , helpless , he watched them pass him . 
The sail , ragged though it was , still had enough surface to catch some of the ocean of power being poured out from the nursery stars . 
He would never have believed , without seeing it , that the bizarre little vessel could go so fast . 
But where was it going ? ? 
And why was it causing so much agitation among the Angels , and being followed by so many of them ? ? 
There was only one possible answer , but Jack 's horrified mind refused to believe it until he had fed the radar plots of the skiff 's course into the computer . 
The curve on the card the computer spat back at him could n't be argued with , however . 
The skiff was headed for the very center of the nebula -- toward that place which , Jack knew now , could hold nothing less important than the very core of the Angel 's life and religion . 
It was clear that Langer had at last found a way to attract the Angel 's attention . 
It was equally clear that as of this moment , the treaty was off . 
Stern chase 10 Langer would have to be headed off , whether he knew where he was going or not . 
Almost surely he did ; ; after all , he had had the same set of facts as Jack had had to work from , and he was an almost frighteningly observant man . 
But not having talked to the Angels , he had made a wrong turn in his reasoning somewhere along the line . 
Had he decided , perhaps , that the center of the cloud was a center of government , instead of a center of life and faith " ? ? 
But it did n't matter now whether he meant to invade the Holy of Holies , or was simply headed in that direction by accident . 
If it was intentional , it was now also unnecessary ; ; and whether intentional or not , the outcome would be disastrous . 
Jack crawled under the boards and restored the six feet of lead line he had excised from the Nernst generator switch . 
When he was back on his feet again and about to reinstall the fuses , however , he hesitated . 
He had to have fusion power to catch up with the skiff , and he had to have it fast . 
But fusion power in the Coal Sack was what had triggered all the trouble in the first place -- and he already had an Angel aboard . 
" Hesperus " ? ? 
" Receiving " . 
" I 'm going to turn my generator back on , as I promised to do . 
But I ca n't take you to Earth yet . 
First I 've got to intercept my brothers before they get any deeper into trouble . 
Will you obstruct this , or will you help ? ? 
I know it 's not part of the bargain , and your elders might not like it " . 
" Nobody else can live in your hearth while I am in it " , Hesperus said promptly . 
" As for my elders , they have already admitted that they were wrong . 
If because of this incident they become angry with Earth , I will not be permitted to go there at all . 
Therefore of course I will help " . 
With a short-lived sigh of relief , Jack plugged the fuses back in and threw the switch . 
Without an instant 's transition , the green light that meant full fusion power winked on the board . 
Always before , it had taken five minutes to -- Of course . 
Hesperus was in there . 
From here on out , the Ariadne was going to be hotter than any space cruiser man had ever dreamed of . 
But since he had failed to anticipate it , he lost the five minutes anyhow , in plotting an intercept orbit . 
" Hesperus , do n't use this t-tau vector trick of yours , please . 
