It would have killed you in the cabin . 
Do you have anything for me " ? ? 
Mercer stammered , not knowing what B'dikkat meant , and the two-nosed man answered for him , " I think he has a nice baby head , but it is n't big enough for you to take yet " . 
Mercer never noticed the needle touch his arm . 
B'dikkat had turned to the next knot of people when the super-condamine hit Mercer . 
He tried to run after B'dikkat , to hug the lead spacesuit , to tell B'dikkat that he loved him . 
He stumbled and fell , but it did not hurt . 
The many-bodied girl lay near him . 
Mercer spoke to her . 
" Is n't it wonderful ? ? 
You 're beautiful , beautiful , beautiful . 
I 'm so happy to be here " . 
The woman covered with growing hands came and sat beside them . 
She radiated warmth and good fellowship . 
Mercer thought that she looked very distinguished and charming . 
He struggled out of his clothes . 
It was foolish and snobbish to wear clothing when none of these nice people did . 
The two women babbled and crooned at him . 
With one corner of his mind he knew that they were saying nothing , just expressing the euphoria of a drug so powerful that the known universe had forbidden it . 
With most of his mind he was happy . 
He wondered how anyone could have the good luck to visit a planet as nice as this . 
He tried to tell the Lady Da , but the words were n't quite straight . 
A painful stab hit him in the abdomen . 
The drug went after the pain and swallowed it . 
It was like the cap in the hospital , only a thousand times better . 
The pain was gone , though it had been crippling the first time . 
He forced himself to be deliberate . 
He rammed his mind into focus and said to the two ladies who lay pinkly nude beside him in the desert , " That was a good bite . 
Maybe I will grow another head . 
That would make B'dikkat happy " ! ! 
The Lady Da forced the foremost of her bodies in an upright position . 
Said she , " I 'm strong , too . 
I can talk . 
Remember , man , remember . 
People never live forever . 
We can die , too , we can die like real people . 
I do so believe in death " ! ! 
Mercer smiled at her through his happiness . 
" Of course you can . 
But is n't this nice " With this he felt his lips thicken and his mind go slack . 
He was wide awake , but he did not feel like doing anything . 
In that beautiful place , among all those companionable and attractive people , he sat and smiled . 
B'dikkat was sterilizing his knives . 
Mercer wondered how long the super-condamine had lasted him . 
He endured the ministrations of the dromozoa without screams or movement . 
The agonies of nerves and itching of skin were phenomena which happened somewhere near him , but meant nothing . 
He watched his own body with remote , casual interest . 
The Lady Da and the hand-covered woman stayed near him . 
After a long time the half-man dragged himself over to the group with his powerful arms . 
Having arrived he blinked sleepily and friendlily at them , and lapsed back into the restful stupor from which he had emerged . 
Mercer saw the sun rise on occasion , closed his eyes briefly , and opened them to see stars shining . 
Time had no meaning . 
The dromozoa fed him in their mysterious way ; ; the drug canceled out his needs for cycles of the body . 
At last he noticed a return of the inwardness of pain . 
The pains themselves had not changed ; ; he had . 
He knew all the events which could take place on Shayol . 
He remembered them well from his happy period . 
Formerly he had noticed them -- now he felt them . 
He tried to ask the Lady Da how long they had had the drug , and how much longer they would have to wait before they had it again . 
She smiled at him with benign , remote happiness ; ; apparently her many torsos , stretched out along the ground , had a greater capacity for retaining the drug than did his body . 
She meant him well , but was in no condition for articulate speech . 
The half-man lay on the ground , arteries pulsating prettily behind the half-transparent film which protected his abdominal cavity . 
Mercer squeezed the man 's shoulder . 
The half-man woke , recognized Mercer and gave him a healthily sleepy grin . 
" ' A good morrow to you , my boy . 
That 's out of a play . 
Did you ever see a play " ? ? 
" You mean a game with cards " ? ? 
" No " , said the half-man , " a sort of eye-machine with real people doing the figures " . 
" I never saw that " , said Mercer , " but I " -- " But you want to ask me when B'dikkat is going to come back with the needle " . 
" Yes " , said Mercer , a little ashamed of his obviousness . 
" Soon " , said the half-man . 
That 's why I think of plays . 
We all know what is going to happen . 
We all know when it is going to happen . 
We all know what the dummies will do " -- he gestured at the hummocks in which the decorticated men were cradled -- " and we all know what the new people will ask . 
But we never know how long a scene is going to take " . 
" What 's a ' scene ' " ? ? 
Asked Mercer . 
" Is that the name for the needle " ? ? 
The half-man laughed with something close to real humor . 
" No , no , no . 
You 've got the lovelies on the brain . 
A scene is just a part of a play . 
I mean we know the order in which things happen , but we have no clocks and nobody cares enough to count days or to make calendars and there 's not much climate here , so none of us know how long anything takes . 
The pain seems short and the pleasure seems long . 
I 'm inclined to think that they are about two Earth-weeks each " . 
Mercer did not know what an " Earth-week " was , since he had not been a well-read man before his conviction , but he got nothing more from the half-man at that time . 
The half-man received a dromozootic implant , turned red in the face , shouted senselessly at Mercer , " Take it out , you fool ! ! 
Take it out of me " ! ! 
When Mercer looked on helplessly , the half-man twisted over on his side , his pink dusty back turned to Mercer , and wept hoarsely and quietly to himself . 
Mercer himself could not tell how long it was before B'dikkat came back . 
It might have been several days . 
It might have been several months . 
Once again B'dikkat moved among them like a father ; ; once again they clustered like children . 
This time B'dikkat smiled pleasantly at the little head which had grown out of Mercer 's thigh -- a sleeping child 's head , covered with light hair on top and with dainty eyebrows over the resting eyes . 
Mercer got the blissful needle . 
When B'dikkat cut the head from Mercer 's thigh , he felt the knife grinding against the cartilage which held the head to his own body . 
He saw the child-face grimace as the head was cut ; ; he felt the far , cool flash of unimportant pain , as B'dikkat dabbed the wound with a corrosive antiseptic which stopped all bleeding immediately . 
The next time it was two legs growing from his chest . 
Then there had been another head beside his own . 
Or was that after the torso and legs , waist to toe-tips , of the little girl which had grown from his side ? ? 
He forgot the order . 
He did not count time . 
Lady Da smiled at him often , but there was no love in this place . 
She had lost the extra torsos . 
In between teratologies , she was a pretty and shapely woman ; ; but the nicest thing about their relationship was her whisper to him , repeated some thousands of time , repeated with smiles and hope , " People never live forever " . 
She found this immensely comforting , even though Mercer did not make much sense out of it . 
Thus events occurred , and victims changed in appearance , and new ones arrived . 
Sometimes B'dikkat took the new ones , resting in the everlasting sleep of their burned-out brains , in a ground-truck to be added to other herds . 
The bodies in the truck threshed and bawled without human speech when the dromozoa struck them . 
Finally , Mercer did manage to follow B'dikkat to the door of the cabin . 
He had to fight the bliss of super-condamine to do it . 
Only the memory of previous hurt , bewilderment and perplexity made him sure that if he did not ask B'dikkat when he , Mercer , was happy , the answer would no longer be available when he needed it . 
Fighting pleasure itself , he begged B'dikkat to check the records and to tell him how long he had been there . 
B'dikkat grudgingly agreed , but he did not come out of the doorway . 
He spoke through the public address box built into the cabin , and his gigantic voice roared out over the empty plain , so that the pink herd of talking people stirred gently in their happiness and wondered what their friend B'dikkat might be wanting to tell them . 
When he said it , they thought it exceedingly profound , though none of them understood it , since it was simply the amount of time that Mercer had been on Shayol : " Standard years -- eighty-four years , seven months , three days , two hours , eleven and one half minutes . 
Good luck , fellow " . 
Mercer turned away . 
The secret little corner of his mind , which stayed sane through happiness and pain , made him wonder about B'dikkat . 
What persuaded the cow-man to remain on Shayol ? ? 
What kept him happy without super-condamine ? ? 
Was B'dikkat a crazy slave to his own duty or was he a man who had hopes of going back to his own planet some day , surrounded by a family of little cow-people resembling himself ? ? 
Mercer , despite his happiness , wept a little at the strange fate of B'dikkat . 
His own fate he accepted . 
He remembered the last time he had eaten -- actual eggs from an actual pan . 
The dromozoa kept him alive , but he did not know how they did it . 
He staggered back to the group . 
The Lady Da , naked in the dusty plain , waved a hospitable hand and showed that there was a place for him to sit beside her . 
There were unclaimed square miles of seating space around them , but he appreciated the kindliness of her gesture none the less . 4 , The years , if they were years , went by . 
The land of Shayol did not change . 
Sometimes the bubbling sound of geysers came faintly across the plain to the herd of men ; ; those who could talk declared it to be the breathing of Captain Alvarez . 
There was night and day , but no setting of crops , no change of season , no generations of men . 
Time stood still for these people , and their load of pleasure was so commingled with the shocks and pains of the dromozoa that the words of the Lady Da took on very remote meaning . 
" People never live forever " . 
Her statement was a hope , not a truth in which they could believe . 
They did not have the wit to follow the stars in their courses , to exchange names with each other , to harvest the experience of each for the wisdom of all . 
There was no dream of escape for these people . 
Though they saw the old-style chemical rockets lift up from the field beyond B'dikkat's cabin , they did not make plans to hide among the frozen crop of transmuted flesh . 
Far long ago , some other prisoner than one of these had tried to write a letter . 
His handwriting was on a rock . 
Mercer read it , and so had a few of the others , but they could not tell which man had done it . 
Nor did they care . 
The letter , scraped on stone , had been a message home . 
They could still read the opening : " Once , I was like you , stepping out of my window at the end of day , and letting the winds blow me gently toward the place I lived in . 
Once , like you , I had one head , two hands , ten fingers on my hands . 
The front part of my head was called a face , and I could talk with it . 
Now I can only write , and that only when I get out of pain . 
