Early in November the clouds lifted enough to carry out the assigned missions . 
And Sweeney Squadron put its first marks on the combat record . 
Every plane that could fly was sent into the air . 
Cricket took eight ships and went south across the Straits and along the north coast of Mindanao to Cagayan . 
Anything the enemy flew or floated was his target . 
Fleischman with eight was to patrol the Leyte Gulf area , with his main task to get any kamikaze before they got to the ships . 
Greg himself took two flights , with Todman leading the second , to patrol and look for targets of opportunities around Ormoc on the east coast of Leyte . 
Each plane carried two five-hundred pound bombs . 
A weapons carrier took Greg , Todman , Belton , Banjo Ferguson , and Walters and the others the two miles from the bivouac area to the strip . 
It was a rough long ride through the mud and pot holes . 
No one had much to say . 
The sky glowered down at them . 
There was a feeling that this mission would be canceled like all the others and that this muddy wet dark world of combat would go on forever . 
The truck dropped them off at the various revetments spread through the jungle . 
Donovan snatched Greg 's chute from him with a belligerent motion and almost ran to the plane with it . 
His face was dark as the sky above it as he stood on the wing and waited for his pilot . 
Greg climbed into the cockpit feeling as if he had never been in one before . 
But his hands and those of Donovan moved automatically adjusting and arranging in the check-out procedure . 
" I 've got her as neat as I can " , Donovan said , as he dropped the straps of the Seton harness over Greg 's shoulders . 
" But this goddamn climate . 
It 's for carabao not airplanes " . 
" We 'll make out . 
Do n't you worry , chief " , Greg replied , wondering if he himself believed it . 
" Yeah . 
See you " , Donovan said as he jumped off the wing . 
The expression was his trade-mark , his open sesame to good luck , and his prayer that pilot and plane would always return . 
At the prearranged time , Greg started the engine and taxied out . 
From the time the chocks were pulled until the plane was out of sight , he knew Donovan would keep his back to the strip . 
He wondered where the superstition had originated that it was bad luck for a crew chief to watch his plane take off on a combat mission . 
Yet long before the scheduled time for return , Donovan would be watching for every speck in the sky . 
Greg rumbled down the rough metal taxi strip , and one by one the seven members of his flight fell in behind him . 
The dark brown bombs hanging under each wing looked large and powerful . 
The pilots ' heads looked ridiculously small . 
The control tower gave him immediate take-off permission , and the clean roar of the engine that took him off the rough strip spoke well of the skill of Donovan . 
Greg 's mission was the last to leave , and as he circled the ships off Tacloban he saw the clouds were dropping down again . 
To the west , the dark green hills of Leyte were lost in the clouds about halfway up their slopes . 
Underneath him the sea was a dark and muddied gray . 
Water splashed against his windshield as he led the flight in and out of showers . 
The metal strip they had taken off from was coal black against the green jungle around it . 
He possessed the fighter pilot 's horror of bad weather and instrument flying , and he wondered , if the ceiling did drop , whether he and the other flights would be able to find their way back in this unfamiliar territory . 
He shivered in the warm cockpit . 
The overcast was solid above him . 
As far as he could see there was no hole to climb through it . 
They would have to go west through the narrow river valley that separated Leyte from Samar and hope that it did n't close in before they returned . 
Greg pushed the radio button on his throttle . 
" Todman , let 's try to go under this stuff . 
Stay in close and we 'll go up the valley " . 
" Roger , Sweeney " , Todman called back , and pulled his four in and slightly above Greg . 
Greg took the formation wide around three A-26 attack bombers that were headed north over the Gulf . 
He dropped down to five hundred feet , swinging a little north of the city of Tacloban , and punched into the opening that showed against the mountain . 
The valley was only a few hundred yards wide with just about room enough for a properly performed hundred-and-eighty-degree turn . 
It was only a fifteen-minute flight , but before it was through Greg felt himself developing a case of claustrophobia . 
The ceiling stayed solid above them at about eight hundred feet , and at times the sheer cliffs seemed about to close in . 
If the other pilots were worried , they did not show it . 
The formation remained perfect . 
When the sea was visible ahead of them , the relief was as great as if the sun had come out . 
He spread the flight out and led them across a point of land and then down the coast . 
Although they drew light ground fire they saw no signs of activity . 
Once Todman thought he had spotted a tank and went down to investigate while Greg covered him . 
" Somebody beat us to it " ! ! 
Todman said over the radio as he came back up in formation . 
Visibility continued to be limited , and Greg was never able to get above a thousand feet . 
It was frustrating . 
His earphones were constantly full of the sounds of enemy contacts made by other flights . 
He thought once that he identified the somewhat hysterical voice of Fleischman claiming a kill . 
But Greg 's area remained as placid as a Florida dawn . 
Finally , as time began to run out , he headed into Ormoc and glide-bombed a group of houses that Intelligence had thought might contain Japanese supplies . 
The low clouds made bombing difficult . 
There was not enough room to make the usual vertical bomb run . 
The accuracy was deplorable . 
One of Greg 's bombs hung up , and he was miles from the target before he could get rid of it . 
Only one of the flight scored a direct hit and the rest blew up jungle . 
With their load of bombs gone , the planes moved swiftly and easily . 
Greg went up tight against the ceiling and led them back to their pass to home . 
Mercifully , it was still open . 
Like a man making a deep dive , Greg took full breath and plunged back into the valley . 
He was about to make a gas check on his flight when Todman 's voice broke in : " Sweeneys ! ! 
Three bogies . 
Twelve o'clock level " . 
Greg 's eyes flicked up from his instrument panel . 
He saw them , specks against the gray , but closing fast . 
They were headed straight for each other on a collision course . 
Friend or enemy ? ? 
The same old question . 
And only a few seconds to answer it . 
" Zeros " ! ! 
Todman said excitedly , and hopefully . 
And then he thought Todman might be right . 
His mind flicked through the mental pictures he had from the hours of Aircraft Identification . 
He narrowed the shape down to two : either a Zero or a U.S. Navy type aircraft . 
If it were the enemy , tactically his position was correct . 
Japanese aircraft were strong on maneuverability , American on speed and firepower . 
His present maximum altitude , up against the overcast , gave him the opportunity to exploit his advantages . 
But it also made him conspicuous to the enemy , if it was the enemy , and he had n't been spotted already . 
But the closing aircraft showed no sign of deviating from their original course . 
In seconds , Greg made his decision . 
He pushed the radio button . 
" Sweeney Blue , hit the deck . 
Lots of throttle . 
Todman , you take the one on the left . 
I 'll take the middle . 
Belton , the one on the right . 
If they 're Japs . 
Let 's make sure first " . 
Greg had the stick forward and the throttle up before he heard the two " Rogers " . 
The planes , light with most of the gas burned out , responded beautifully . 
Greg 's airspeed indicator was over 350 when he leveled off just above the trees . 
The opposing aircraft continued to come on . 
They appeared to be the enemy . 
Greg wished the Air Corps had continued to camouflage planes . 
There was , of course , no way for the other planes to get by them . 
It was a box . 
But they could turn and escape to the east . 
Greg pushed the radio button again . 
" Todman , drop your second element back . 
If any of us miss , they can pick up the pieces . 
Now let 's make sure they 're Japs " . 
Even as he said it , Greg knew they had found the enemy . 
The shapes were unmistakable and the Rising Suns were showing up , slightly brighter pinpoints in the gray gloom . 
Greg slapped his hand across the switches that turned on the guns and gun camera and gun sight . 
The circle with the dot in the center showed up yellow on the reflector glass in front of him . 
His hands shook . 
" Arm your guns , Sweeneys " . 
" They 're Japs . 
They 're Japs " , came a high-pitched voice . 
" Greg to Sweeney Blue . 
One pass only . 
No turns . 
You 'll bust your ass in this canyon . 
That 's an order " . 
He moved the flights over against one wall . 
It gave them all a chance to make a high-speed climbing turn attack and a break-away that would not take them into the overcast or force a tight-turn recovery . 
If the turn was too tight , a barrel roll would bring them out . 
A hell of an altitude for a barrel roll , but it could be done . 
Greg slammed his throttle to the fire wall and rammed up the RPM , and the engine responded as if it had been waiting . 
The clearly identifiable enemy continued on as if no one else were around . 
" They have n't seen us " , Greg yelled to himself over the engine noise . 
" They have n't seen us " . 
He hit the radio button . 
" Now , Sweeneys , now . 
Let 's take 'em home " . 
He hauled back on the stick and felt his cheeks sag . 
Out of the corner of his eye , he watched his wingman move out a bit and shoot up with him . 
Perfect , he thought . 
With the rapid rate of closure , the approach from below , the side , and ahead , there would be only a moment when damage could be done . 
Just like shooting at a duck while performing a half-gainer from a diving board . 
He tightened his turn . 
His nose up . 
It was going to be dangerous . 
Eight aircraft in this small box . 
Please , dear God , make my pilots good , he prayed . 
He took a lead on the enemy , using a distance of five of the radii in his circular sight and then added another . 
The enemy did not veer . 
It did not seem possible that they had n't been spotted . 
Blind fools . 
Now ! ! 
Greg 's fingers closed on the stick trigger . 
The plane rumbled and slowed . 
Six red lines etched their way into the gray and vanished . 
As if drawn by a wire the enemy flew into them . 
Greg tightened his turn until the plane shuddered . 
Luck was with him . 
His burst held for a second on the engine section of the plane . 
The Jap 's propeller flew off in pieces . 
A large piece of engine cowling vanished . 
It was all Greg had time to see . 
His maneuvering for the shot had placed him near the overcast , almost inverted and heading up into the clouds . 
His speed was dropping rapidly . 
If he spun out now , he would join his opponent on the ground . 
Wingman , stay clear , he prayed . 
He pushed stick and rudder and entered the overcast on his back . 
He fought the panic of vertigo . 
He had no idea which was up and which was down . 
He held the controls where they had been . 
Sweat popped out over him and he felt the slick between his palm and the stick grip . 
His air speed dropped until he thought he would spin out . 
