The flat , hard cap was small , but he thrust it to the back of his head . 
" Tie him up " . 
" Hell with it " . 
Before they could guess his intention Rankin stepped forward and swung the guard 's own gun against the uncovered head , hard . 
The man went over without sound , falling to the bare floor . 
Barton said harshly , " Why did you do that " ? ? 
Rankin sneered at him . 
" What did you want me to do , kiss him ? ? 
He dumped me in solitary twice " . 
Barton caught the lighter man 's shoulder and swung him around . 
" Let 's get one thing straight , you and me . 
The only reason we brought you was to get Miller out . 
If you ever try anything without my orders I 'll kill you " . 
Fred Rankin looked at him . 
It seemed to Barton that the green eyes mocked him , the thin-lipped smile held insolence , but he had no time to waste now . 
" Come on . 
Let 's move " . 
They filed out through the guard-room door , into the paved square . 
There were three other men within this prison whom Barton would have liked to liberate , but they were in other cell blocks . 
There was no chance . 
They moved slowly , toward the main gate , following the wall . 
There was no moon . 
They had chosen this night purposely . 
They reached the guard house without alerting the men on the walls above , and Powers slipped through the door . 
Two men were on duty inside , playing pinochle , relaxed . 
They looked up in surprise as Powers came in . 
" What are you doing out of the block " ? ? 
" It 's Curtiss " , he said , naming the man Rankin had hit . 
" I 've got to have help " . 
They stared at him . 
The sergeant in charge climbed to his feet . 
" What 's wrong with him " ? ? 
" He 's having some kind of a fit " . 
The sergeant turned to the door . 
As he passed through it Barton shoved his gun against the man 's side . 
" One sound and you 're dead " . 
The sergeant froze . 
Powers had not followed . 
Powers was covering the remaining guard . 
The man half-reached for the cord of the alarm bell . 
Powers knocked his arm aside . 
Deliberately , with none of Rankin 's viciousness , he laid the barrel of his gun alongside the guard 's head . 
They were free . 
Even Barton could not quite believe it . 
It had gone without a hitch . 
They slid through the wicket in the big gate , ghosted across the dark ground . 
Five minutes later they reached the horses . 
Barton was relieved to see that Carl Dill and Emmett Foster had brought extra mounts . 
He had been worried that with Miller and Rankin added to the escape party they would be short . 
No one hurried . 
They walked the horses , heading along the river , Barton and Emmett Foster in the lead , seven men riding quietly through the night . 
The only thing which would have attracted attention was that two wore the uniform of prison guards , three the striped suits of convicts . 
Five miles . 
In a small grove against the river they halted , turning deep into the protection of the trees . 
Foster had brought extra clothing also . 
A good man , Emmett . 
He had been one of the original Night Riders , one who had escaped the trial . 
It was to him that Barton had sent Carl Dill on Dill 's release from the prison . 
Clyde Miller was crying softly to himself , shedding his striped suit and fumbling into the nondescript butternut pants , the worn brown shirt . 
Kid Boyd was unusually silent , Rankin watchful , a few paces apart . 
Barton finished his dressing and extended his hand to Powers . 
" I wo n't even try to thank you " . 
The ex-prison guard was embarrassed . 
He said in a studied voice , " I did n't do it for you . 
I did it for the valley . 
You 're the only man the Night Riders will follow . 
We 've been starving and I do n't like to starve " . 
Barton turned away , his eyes falling upon Rankin beside his horse . 
" Good luck " . 
The murderer lifted his head . 
" Meaning you want me to ride out " ? ? 
" You are n't one of us . 
There 's nothing for you here " . 
" I got no place to go " . 
Barton hesitated . 
He did not trust Rankin , his violent temper , his killer instinct . 
But ten years in prison had taught him realities . 
They were in a fight , outweighed in both numbers and money . 
It was all right to put a bunch of ranchers onto horses , to call them Night Riders , to set out to attack the largest mining combination the country had ever seen if all they wanted was adventure . 
But if they really hoped to succeed they needed professionals , men who knew how to use a gun against men , who would match the killers on the other side . 
" Your choice " , he said briefly , and turned to Kid Boyd . 
" Bury those uniforms so they wo n't be found " . 
Then Barton touched Carl Dill 's arm and moved off , up the river bank . 
He wanted a careful , uninterrupted report from Dill on the conditions in the valley . 
They squatted on their heels in the deep mud and Dill found a cigar in his breast pocket , passing it over silently . 
He too knew the agony of going for weeks , sometimes months without the solace of tobacco . 
Mitchell Barton drew in the fragrance deeply , letting the smoke lie warm and soothing in his throat for a moment before he exhaled . 
Through the gloom he could not see the man beside him clearly but he knew him thoroughly . 
For his first five years in prison , they had shared a cell . 
Carl Dill was neither a rancher nor a valley man . 
He had been the auditor for the mining syndicate , and he had stolen fifty thousand dollars of the syndicate 's money . 
He had done time for the theft . 
The one thing they had in common was their hatred . 
Both hated Donald Kruger . 
It had drawn them together , and since his release from prison Dill had worked tirelessly to effect this night 's escape . 
He said now , " I 've got the perfect headquarters set up . 
The old Haskell mine " . 
Mitch Barton knew the place . 
Twenty years before a group of Easterners had bought out the Haskell claims in the rocky hills south of Grass Valley . 
They had spent a million dollars , carving in a road , putting up buildings , drilling their haulage tunnel . 
Then the vein had petered out and the whole project had been abandoned . 
" The road 's washed badly " , said Dill , " but there 's a trail you can get over with a horse . 
A company of cavalry could n't come in there if two men were guarding that trail " . 
Barton nodded . 
" How do the valley people feel " ? ? 
" As mad as ever . 
But Kruger 's men keep them off balance , and they do n't trust me . 
I 'm an outsider . 
When they learn you 're in the hills though , they 'll rally , do n't worry about that " . 
Barton waited for a long moment , then asked the question which lay always uppermost in his mind . 
" My boy . 
Did you find him " ? ? 
Dill was silent as if he hated to answer , and Barton had a cold , sick feeling of apprehension . 
" He 's in Morgan 's Ferry " . 
Barton half-straightened in surprise . 
" What 's he doing there " ? ? 
Again Dill hesitated . 
" Dealing faro " . 
" Dealing faro ? ? 
How come " ? ? 
" Your sister-in-law has the faro bank in Cap Ayres ' saloon " . 
Barton cursed under his breath . 
After another long pause he asked , " How many people know who they are " ? ? 
" Everyone . 
Your cousin Finley saw to that . 
He 's quite a rat , you know . 
He sold out to Kruger 's men . 
He 's informed them of everything you 've ever written him . 
He wants your ranch " . 
Barton stood up . 
He said tensely , " All right . 
Let 's go get the boy " . 
Dill had come up also . 
" I was afraid of this . 
I almost did n't tell you " . 
" If you had n't I 'd have killed you " . 
Dill 's voice tightened . 
" But you ca n't ride into the Ferry . 
That 's what they 'll expect you to do . 
They 'll be there waiting for you . 
I understand how you feel about the child . 
" " The hell you do " . 
Barton 's voice was rougher than Dill had ever heard it . 
" I never saw him . 
My wife died in childbirth after I was sent away . 
" I ca n't leave him there . 
Donald Kruger would like nothing better than to hold him as hostage , and I would n't entrust a snake to his tender care . 
I 've got to get the boy . 
Let 's ride " . 
Chapter two Barton 's men cut the telegraph wires in half a dozen places , carrying away whole sections to make repairs more difficult . 
It was over an hour before their escape was discovered , but still the news that Barton was free flashed across the central portion of the state . 
It reached Donald Kruger in his massive home in Burlingame . 
It reached the mines at North San Juan and Bloomfield . 
It brought men out of bed and sent them into hurried conferences . 
For everyone involved knew that the whole valley was a powder keg , and Mitchell Barton the fuse which could send it into explosive violence . 
Creighton Hague sat in his office above the Ione pit . 
The office was of logs , four rooms , each heated by an iron stove . 
The building was dwarfed by the scene outside . 
There a dozen giant monitors played their seventy-five-foot jets of water against the huge seam of tertiary gravel which was the mountainside . 
The gravel was the bed of an ancient river , buckled in some prehistoric upheaval of earth . 
It was partially cemented by ages and pressure , yet it crumpled before the onslaught of the powerful streams , the force of a thousand fire hoses , and with the gold it held washed down through the long sluices . 
A million dollars ' of gold a month . 
A million tons of rock and soil and brush . 
The monitors ran twenty-four hours each day . 
Their roar , like the swelling volume of a hundred tornadoes could be heard for miles . 
Hague , like all who worked near the pits , was partly deafened from the constant assault against his eardrums . 
He was a big man , wearing a neat flannel shirt against the cold foothill air . 
Fat showed in loose rolls beneath the shirt . 
Ten years older than Mitch Barton , he had clawed his way up from mucker in the pits to manager of the operation . 
He was proud of his accomplishments , proud of his job , proud that Donald Kruger and his associates trusted him . 
He lived and breathed for the mining company . 
No man could have reached his spot nor held it without being ruthless , and Hague had made a virtue of ruthlessness all of his life . 
There came a ghost of noise at the office door and Hague swung to see Kodyke in the entrance from the outer room . 
Hague had never accustomed himself to Kodyke . 
The man was tall , thin , with a narrow face and a too-large nose . 
The eyes always held Hague , eyes of a dead man , lidless as a lizard 's , with the fixed intensity of a cobra . 
Even Hague was repelled by the machinelike deadliness that was Kodyke . 
He knew nothing about the man 's history . 
Kodyke had appeared at the mine one day bearing a letter from Kruger . 
Kodyke was to head the dread company police . 
He ran the change rooms . 
He threw out the hi-graders . 
He supervised the cleanups and handled the shipments of raw gold which each week went out to San Francisco . 
Hague squeezed down his uneasy dislike . 
He pulled open the top drawer of his desk and drew out a tintype . 
" This is Mitchell Barton . 
He broke out of Folsom last night . 
Apparently he bribed one of the guards . 
We want him back there or we want him dead " . 
Kodyke took the picture in a lean hand , studying it thoughtfully . 
" Dangerous " ? ? 
" Dangerous , yes . 
You know how the ranchers in the valley are . 
They blame us for all their troubles . 
Ten years ago they blew up some of our ditches . 
It cost us a hundred thousand dollars and thirty days lost time to fix them . 
We do n't want Barton 's Night Riders loose again " . 
The gunman nodded , slipping the picture into his breast pocket , saying nothing . 
Normally Hague wasted no words , but now he found himself unable to stop their flow although he knew Kodyke was aware of all he said . 
