For several months now , Jack Carter , a big overgrown boy of fifteen with a fuzzy , pimpled face and greenish catlike eyes with a lot of red in them , had been haunted by a dream , a vision , of a Woman . 
This Woman had no distinct shape or size and no particular face , but she radiated warmth , a sweet warmth ; ; she would talk to him in a soothing voice about things his mother would have said were not nice and put her hands on him and kiss him passionately . 
When she would do these things , he would turn blind for an instant and become sick at his stomach . 
Then he would run to the toilet behind the house . 
Sometimes he did this three or four times a day , for this Woman was almost always with him . 
He would feel ashamed each time and wonder whether his mother and father knew -- thinking they might see it in his eyes or smell it on him . 
But they never said anything , so he figured it was all right . 
And so when Miss Langford came to teach at the one-room Chestnut school , where Jack was a pupil in the eighth grade , the Woman of Jack 's mind assumed the teacher 's face and figure . 
He could not keep his eyes off her when at school ; ; when he went home at night , he took her with him in his mind , and she did the things the anonymous Woman used to do , and he did the thing afterwards each time as he used to do . 
When he awoke in the mornings , she was in his mind and he could hardly wait to get to school to be near her in the flesh . 
Miss Langford ( her first name was Evelyn ) was an attractive girl . 
Tall , blonde , blue-eyes , fair , buxom without being heavy , she cut a fine figure of budding womanhood as she swished among the pupils in her fresh , starched summer dress . 
Something was beginning to stir and come alive in her , too ( it may have been there for a good while , since she was twenty now ; ; but if it had been , it had been smothered until now by fear ) : you could tell it by the way she watched the older , bigger boys , like Jack . 
She would look at Jack , with that hidden something in her eyes , and Jack would see the Woman and become breathless and a little sick . 
School began in August , the hottest part of the year , and for the first few days Miss Langford was very lenient with the children , letting them play a lot and the new ones sort of get acquainted with one another . 
The first two or three days they went home early . 
All , that is , except Jack . 
He hung around the schoolhouse , watching through a window from outside while Miss Langford straightened desks and put the room in order . 
Once ( this was on the third day of school ) she kneeled down to pick up some books where they 'd dropped on the floor and Jack looked up her dress -- at the bare expanse of incredibly white leg . 
He thought for a moment his heart had stopped beating . 
About that time Miss Langford straightened up and looked out the window directly at him , he thought , although probably she did n't even see him . 
He jumped back , ducked and ran , crouching , down the hill away from the school . 
He did n't look back and he ran until he was out of sight of the schoolhouse and out of breath ; ; then he slowed to a walk . 
The vision became even stronger now . 
" I 'll get her yet " , he muttered to himself . 
" I 've got to get her " . 
That night he dreamed a dream violent with passion , in which he and the Woman , now the teacher , did everything except engage in the act ( and this probably only because he had never engaged in the act in reality ) , and when he awoke the next morning his heart was afire . 
He ate litle that morning , and his mother became concerned , inasmuch as he usually ate heartily . 
" What 's the matter , honey " ? ? 
She said , with the solicitude of a middle-aged woman for her only child . 
" Are n't you hungry " ? ? 
" No , I 'm not hungry " , he said , pushing back the bacon and eggs . 
Outside it was already hot at 7:30 A.M. , and it was getting hot in the kitchen . 
He felt a little sick at his stomach . 
" Are you sick " ? ? 
" No " , he said . 
" I 'll be all right . 
I guess it 's this hot weather " . 
" Do n't you play hard today then . 
And if you get sick , ask the teacher to let you come home early . 
Daddy left the car for me , and I 'm going to town this afternoon " . 
" OK. , I wo n't play hard " , he promised . 
Just then Charles Lever yelled , " Hey , Jack " , from the quarry road which ran behind the Carter house , and Jack grabbed the lunch from the table and darted out the kitchen door , yelling " Good-bye , Mom " over his shoulder . 
" Wha dd ya say , boy " ? ? 
Charles said , grinning , showing his huge yellow teeth . 
Charles , also fifteen , was tall and skinny , scraggly , with straight black hair like an Indian 's and sharp brown eyes . 
He considered himself handsome and seemed to think all the girls were after him . 
" You know what I done last night " ? ? 
Charles said as they picked their way over the rocky road which led up the hill away from the Dixie Highway , through a corn field and a patch of woods to the school . 
Jack knew of course that the tale to be unfolded would involve a girl and probably be dirty , because girls were Charles ' only apparent interest . 
But Jack always derived vicarious sensual thrills from Charles ' revelations ( even when he suspected his friend of exaggeration or invention ) , so he usually invited them , as he did now . 
" No . 
What " ? ? 
" I got Margaret Rider in one of them old box cars down there by the quarry " . 
A nude imaginary picture of Miss Langford flashed across Jack 's mind . 
His heart beat faster . 
" Hell you say " ? ? 
He said , lapsing into the profanity he often used when away from his parents and especially when he was with Charles . 
" How 'd you do it " ? ? 
" Hell , I jist got on top of -- " " No , I mean how 'd you get her to do it " ? ? 
" Hell , I jist ask her " . 
" Jist like that " ? ? 
" Hell , yes . 
She 's been hangin ' around me a lot here lately , and I figgered I might as well 's try it . 
Besides I heard her old uncle that stays there has been doin ' it " . 
" I never heard that " . 
" It 's all over Branchville . 
If you 'd get out of your back yard once in a while you might even get her your ownself " . 
" I might try it one of these days " , Jack said wonderingly , thinking of Miss Langford . 
When they reached the school , a gang of boys and girls were already there playing " crack the whip " in front of the schoolhouse . 
Miss Langford , in a fresh white dress and low-heeled white sandals , without socks , was out there with them , trying to get them inside . 
" Time for books " , she yelled , jingling a little five-and-dime store bell in her right hand . 
" Let 's go inside " . 
" Oh , come on Miss Langford , play with us just onct " , one of the little girls begged , smiling wistfully . 
" No , not now " , said the teacher . 
" Maybe at dinner time . 
Come inside now " . 
The children grudgingly stopped playing then and straggled into the schoolhouse . 
Jack watched Miss Langford all morning . 
He could think of nothing else save his mental image of her nude figure and what Charles had said that morning about Margaret Rider . 
Occasionally he would look across the aisle at Margaret , fourteen and demure in a fresh green organdy dress , sitting in the sixth-grade row , and he could hardly believe she would do what Charles had said she did . 
At noontime , remembering what the teacher had said about maybe playing with the kids , Jack stayed close to the schoolhouse while all the other big boys , except Charles , went off out the road to play ball . 
" Why ai n't you playin ' ball " ? ? 
He asked Charles suspiciously as they sat in the well-house shade , watching the girls congregate in front of the schoolhouse . 
" Miss Langford , come out and play with us like you promised " , several of the little girls called . 
" I 'd druther stay here and watch the girls " , Charles grinned . 
" Maybe some of 'em will fall down and we 'll see up their dress " . 
" Maybe " , Jack said idly , watching for Miss Langford . 
Presently she came out of the schoolhouse . 
When she appeared , two or three of the little girls jumped up and down , yelling , " Goody , goody " . 
" Let 's play with 'em " , Jack said , rising from where he sat on the ground and dusting off his overall pants . 
" O.K. " Charles rose also , and the two of them moved over to join the girls . 
They played crack the whip a few minutes without mishap . 
Then when Miss Langford was on the end of the line of girls , Jack , in the middle of the line , gave an extra hard pull and the young teacher sprawled backwards , sitting down hard , her dress flying over her head . 
While she was struggling to get her skirt down and get on her feet again , Jack ran over , offered her his hand and said , " Gosh , I 'm sorry , Miss Langford . 
I did n't mean to pull so hard " . 
" That 's all right " , she said , tossing her head back to get the hair out of her eyes . 
" It was my fault " . 
With one hand she held her skirt down while she took Jack 's extended hand with the other . 
When her hand touched his , fire went through Jack and he felt weak , but he managed somehow to get her on her feet . 
He thought she gave him that look with the hidden something in it as he let her hand go . 
" Thank you " , she said , dusting herself off . 
" Will you play with us again , Miss Langford " ? ? 
One of the little girls said . 
" No more today . 
Maybe some other day " . 
" Oh , shucks " , the girl said . 
" I do n't believe I 'll play any more neither " . 
" Me neither " , others said , and soon the game broke up , the children going off in pairs , in larger groups and alone . 
Jack walked off alone out the road in the searing midday sun , past Robert Allen 's three-room , tarpapered house , toward the field where the other boys were playing ball , thinking of what he would do in order to make Miss Langford have him stay in after school -- because this was the day he had decided when he thought he saw the look in her eyes . 
When he came back to the schoolhouse , his mind was made up . 
He simply would not work his arithmetic problems when the teacher held his class . 
That should do it , he thought , because Miss Langford had said she was going to be strict about school work . 
He had considered throwing erasers or flipping paperwads at someone or pulling the hair of the girl sitting in front of him , but he could n't take a chance on either of these possibilities : the teacher probably would make him stand face-to-wall in a corner instead of stay in after school . 
The only drawback now to the plan he 'd decided on was that someone else might fail to do his work , too , and the teacher would have that person stay late along with Jack . 
" But I 've got to take a chance on it " , he told himself desperately . 
To his surprise his plan worked perfectly . 
" All right , if you ca n't do your arithmetic during school hours you can do it after school is out " , Miss Langford said firmly , not smiling . 
" You will stay here thirty minutes after the others go home this afternoon and work your problems " . 
And so when the others stampeded out that afternoon Jack remained docilely in his seat near a window , looking out in what he hoped was a pitiable manner , while the other kids laughed and yelled in at him and made faces as they dispersed , going home . 
He scarcely saw them . 
His heart was pounding like a mighty dynamo and he was trying to think , his mind seeming to scream at him like a hurt or frightened child , " How will I do it ? ? 
