On the fringe of the amused throng of white onlookers stood a young woman of remarkable beauty and poise . 
She munched little ginger cakes called mulatto 's belly and kept her green , somewhat hypnotic eyes fixed on a light-colored male who was prancing wildly with a 5-foot king snake wrapped around his bronze neck . 
The youth with the snake had a natural pride and joy of life which appealed to the woman . 
Lithe and muscular , he had well-molded features , and his light color told of the European ancestors who had been intimate with the slave women of his family . 
The haughty white girl turned to a distinguished , hawk-faced man standing at her side and murmured : " Look at your watch , Col. Garvier . 
It is almost time for and calinda to begin " . 
Col. Henri Garvier was one of New Orleans ' most important and enlightened slave owners . 
He chuckled and gave the signal for the dance to start . 
The slaves ran gaily to the center of Congo Square and gathered around a sweaty youth they called Johnny No-Name . 
Johnny vigorously pounded two bleached steer bones against the gourd which served as his drum . 
He showed his gleaming tusks of teeth and bellowed incoherently , his brass earrings jangling discordantly as he shook and trembled in ecstasy . 
The drummer flogged the gourd with frantic intensity as the dancers began the calinda , a sensual gyration which had long been a favorite of voodoo practitioners and their disciples in the Louisiana slave compounds . 
The dance was of Haitian origin . 
The white girl with the penetrating green eyes sipped the lemonade handed to her by a handsome man of about 30 , who had coppery skin and beetling eyebrows . 
He was possessive in his manner and , though a slave , obviously was educated after a fashion and imitated the manners of his owners . 
He proudly wore the blue livery of her house , for the girl was Madame Delphine Lalaurie , wife of the prominent surgeon , Dr. Louis Lalaurie , who bore one of the South 's oldest and most cherished names . 
Delphine was a pace-setter in high society . 
She was a top horsewoman and one of the city 's most gracious hostesses . 
Although New Orleans was not to learn of it for a spell , she also was a sadist , a nymphomaniac and unobtrusively mad -- the perpetrator of some of the worst crimes against humanity ever committed on American soil . 
Madame Lalaurie gestured with her riding crop toward the 20-year-old youth who was stomping and writhing with the king snake still draped over his bare shoulders . 
The slender , handsome fellow was called Dandy Brandon by the other slaves . 
He was gifted with animal magnetism and a potent allure for women of any race . 
But Dandy had had little experience with girls on his master 's plantation in Bayou St. John . 
Shy , actually , he avoided feminine overtures and seemed truly ignorant of the girls ' desires when they sought to make liaisons with him in the open fields , in carriages and in boathouses . 
This young slave was therefore quite unprepared when Delphine Lalaurie signaled that she wanted him to draw near . 
The woman eyed the youth with the avidity a coin collector might display toward a rare doubloon which is not yet in his collection . 
" What is your name , boy ? ? 
Come a bit closer . 
I wo n't bite , you know " . 
He gaped at Madame Lalaurie and sniffed the Paris perfume which emanated from her . 
Then he smiled shyly . 
" My name is Dandy Brandon , missy . 
I belong to Master Alexander Prieur " . 
She said with intense feeling : " Come near , let me feel your arms . 
You look quite strong and healthy to me , Dandy " . 
Mrs. Lalaurie impatiently propelled the slave toward her waiting carriage . 
Lifting her skirts , she climbed in , never relinquishing her grip on his arm . 
The woman seemed utterly unafraid of the snake which coiled on the floor in a torpor . 
Once inside the luxuriosly-upholstered landau , she drew the curtains and proceeded to give the startled youth the kind of physical examination usually reserved for army inductees . 
Satisfied at last , and after a few amorous gambits on her part which convinced Delphine that Dandy was capable of learning new arts , she opened the window and called to her liveried driver . 
This was the big man with the proprietory air and the beetling , shaggy eyebrows . 
" Aristide ! ! 
I want you to find Monsieur Prieur at once and give him this money for the boy 's purchase . 
There 's $ 600 in gold in this chamois sack . 
If the old fool argues about the price , tell him I shall order my husband not to treat him as a patient any longer . 
Prieur has gout and depends on Louis ' pills and bleedings . 
Besides , he owns 300 slaves . 
One less should n't matter to him " . 
Aristide Devol , the sardonic manservant who had been brought in chains years before from his native Sierra Leone , smiled thinly and touched his well-brushed beaver hat . 
His bold eyes raked the woman , and a perceptive spectator might sense that there was more to their relationship than that of slave to owner . 
" Another youth , Madame " ? ? 
The coachman said softly . 
" This one is a tender chicken , oui ? ? 
Such delicate beauty , such fine flesh . 
It will rip and shred easily for Madame " . 
" Be quiet , Devol ! ! 
You are forgetting your place " . 
The tall coachman walked off briskly in search of Alexander Prieur . 
Delphine Lalaurie took the reins in her gloved hands and drove Dandy Brandon -- cowering in the back seat of the carriage -- to her mansion at 677 Perdido Street . 
Dr. Louis Lalaurie stood on the veranda at the head of the driveway and watched his carriage as it approached the pillared mansion . 
Dandy , curiosity overcoming his apprehensions , peered out at the doctor from the window of the vehicle . 
He saw a pint-sized man with a graying spade beard and an unusually large head . 
Dr. Lalaurie wore a maroon smoking jacket , and his myopic eyes were blurry and glistened behind thick octagonal lenses . 
He was about 50 years old . 
" Another young man , my dear ? ? 
Really , you are most indiscreet to drive him here yourself " , he said , frowning with displeasure . 
Delphine presented her cheek for a kiss , and the physician pecked it like a timid rooster . 
" Dandy is to be our house guest , Louis . 
I want the room in the attic prepared for him He is a most unusual lad , quite precocious in many ways . 
He deserves a better life than just rotting away on the Prieur plantation " . 
" Quite so , my dear . 
His room will be ready shortly " . 
The physician led the horses to the stable after a cursory glance at the cringing slave . 
Had Dandy been older or wiser , instinct might have warned him that he would be well advised to flee from the Lalauries ' tender care if he valued his life . 
But he liked the smell of Delphine 's perfume . 
Besides , her endearments and caresses in the carriage had been new and stirring experiences to the simple youth . 
Also , he was weary of plantation drudgery and monotony . 
So Dandy Brandon trustingly entered the house with Delphine Lalaurie and trudged up the rear steps to the attic room which was to be his new home . 
Airless and dingy though it was , the attic represented luxury to a slave who had led a wretched life with six brothers and sisters and assorted relatives in a shanty at Bayou St. John . 
He bounced exuberantly on the sagging bed and was even more delighted when Madame Lalaurie -- after closing the door -- showed the slave that the bed was designed for something other than slumber . 
It was just as well that the ignorant Dandy enjoyed himself to the hilt that first evening , for the room was to become his prison cell . 
When he finally left the sinister mansion on Perdido Street , he was carried out in a coroner 's basket . 
Just six weeks after Dandy Brandon 's arrival at the mansion , the little surgeon and his svelte young wife gave their annual open house and ball , to which only New Orleans ' oldest and wealthiest families were invited . 
A stringed orchestra played softly behind the potted palms , and Delphine circulated graciously among her guests , chatting airily of the forthcoming races , the latest fashions from Paris , and Louisiana politics . 
Suddenly there was a commotion upstairs , a despairing boyish shriek , and the strains of the waltz faltered and died as the musicians and guests gaped at an apparition descending the marble staircase . 
It was Dandy Brandon , clad only in a bloody loincloth , emaciated and quaking as if the devil were breathing hard on him . 
The lad 's once superb body was a mass of scars and welts . 
His pinched face showed the ravages of malnutrition . 
Feebly he pointed an accusing finger at Madame Lalaurie and shouted : " Evil woman ! ! 
You did this you like to hurt to beat people I want to go home " . 
These were the last words he ever uttered . 
Convulsively , he spat up some blood and collapsed into the arms of Senator Gaston Berche , crimsoning the frilly shirt and waistcoat the politician wore . 
Dr. Louis Lalaurie examined the inert form of the slave on the parquet dance floor and pronounced him dead . 
The ball broke up in confusion . 
Guests stared with horror at Madame Lalaurie and made speedy departures . 
Delphine stood like stone , her eyes alive with hate as she looked down at the sheeted corpse . 
But at the coroner 's inquest Delphine told a forthright story . 
" I saw the boy Dandy at the Congo Square festivities and felt sorry for him . 
It was our hope to educate him and to give him his freedom when the right time came , for he was a bright and friendly youth who seemed worthy of our interest . 
After I paid Monsieur Prieur for Dandy , I brought him home , but he was ill at ease and ran away the same night . 
How he returned in such a ghastly condition , or why , I can not say . 
Dr. Lalaurie and I did n't even know he was in the house until the night of our ball when he came down the stairs " . 
She daubed at her swimming eyes with a lacy handkerchief and said with obvious emotion : " That poor boy ! ! 
He must have fallen in with evil companions , for he was a simple youth and quite trusting and inexperienced . 
Ruffians must have robbed and beaten him before bringing him back to our house to die . 
Such a pitiful end " ! ! 
Though the slave 's dying words about the woman troubled the coroner 's panel , Dandy 's accusation was adjudged an aberration by the jury and disregarded . 
The Lalauries were at the top rung of the social ladder , and even a jury did n't feel privileged to doubt the veracity of so illustrious a lady . 
Moreover , runaway slaves frequently got into serious trouble in New Orleans ' dives . 
So the verdict was " death at the hands of a person or persons unknown " , and the elite of the city , accepting Delphine 's testimony , welcomed her and the doctor back into the fold . 
Once again life went its serene way -- soirees , fox hunts , balls and dinners . 
The excitement over Brandon 's bizarre death abated and Madame Lalaurie 's stock soared when she resumed her self-imposed chores of visiting the poor and bringing cakes and comfort to destitute patients in the county hospital . 
Then , on July 2 , there occurred another incident which set tongues to wagging at a furious clip . 
Mrs. Victor Dominique , socially prominent and a neighbor of the Lalauries , chanced to glance out of her parlor window at dusk one evening and beheld an amazing sight . 
The manservant Devol and his mistress , Delphine Lalaurie , were pursuing a young girl -- an octoroon of cameo-like beauty -- across the front lawn of the Lalaurie mansion . 
The girl was not more than 16 . 
She was nude to the waist and her tumbled abundance of black hair did not conceal the knife slashes on her back . 
The bleeding girl was tiring fast ; ; the coachman and Delphine were gaining on her as she raced down Perdido Street . 
The fugitive cried out in an oddly sibilant voice : " Help me , somebody ! ! 
They have pulled out all my teeth and now she will carve out my tongue with her hacksaw ! ! 
