I guided her to the divan , turned off the TV , faced her . 
She sat quietly , staring at me from the wide eyes . 
And what eyes they were . 
Big and dark , a melting , golden brown . 
Eyes like hot honey , eyes that sizzled . 
Plus flawless skin , smooth brow and cheeks , lips that looked as if you could get a shock from them . 
It was a disturbingly familiar face , too , but I could n't remember where we had met . 
I said , " Do we know each other , Miss " ? ? 
" No , I remembered reading about you in the papers and that you lived here , and when it happened all I could think of was " -- This time she stopped the rush of words herself . 
" I 'm sorry . 
Shall I go on " ? ? 
She smiled . 
It was her first smile . 
But worth waiting for . 
" Sure " . 
I said . 
" But one word at a time , O.K. " ? ? 
She was still hugging the stained coat around her , so I said , " Relax , let me take your things . 
Would you like a drink , or coffee " ? ? 
" No , thanks " . 
She stood up , pulled the coat from her shoulders and started to slide it off , then let out a high-pitched scream and I let out a low-pitched , wobbling sound like a muffler blowing out . 
She was wearing nothing beneath the coat . 
She jerked the coat back on and squeezed it around her again , but not soon enough . 
There had been a good second or two during which my muffler had been blowing out , and now I was certain I 'd seen her somewhere before . 
" I forgot " ! ! 
She yelped . 
" Oh , do forgive me . 
I 'm sorry " ! ! 
" I forgive " -- " That 's what started all the trouble in the first place . 
Oh , dear , I 'm all unstrung " . 
" You and me both , dear . 
Have n't we have n't I seen you . 
I mean , surely we 've " -- " You may have seen me on TV " , she said . 
" I 've done several filmed commercials for " -- Then it hit me . 
" Zing " ! ! 
I cried . 
" Why , yes . 
And you recognized me " ? ? 
" Yes , indeed . 
In fact , I was watching you on that little seventeen-inch screen when you rang my bell . 
Man , you rang -- it was in color , too , Miss , and Miss ? ? 
What 's your name , anyway ? ? 
Ah , you were splendid " . 
I sat by her on the divan . 
" Splendid . 
In a waterfall and all that " . 
" That 's the last one we did . 
That was a fun one " . 
" I 'll bet . 
It was fun for me , all right . 
I do n't mean to pry , but do they hide the swimsuit with the bubbles ? ? 
I mean : Is advertising honest ? ? 
" It depends on who does it . 
I never wear anything at all . 
It would n't -- would n't seem fair , somehow " . 
" I could n't agree with you more " . 
" I really do have something important to tell you , Mr. Scott . 
About the murder " . 
" Murder ? ? 
Oh , yeah " , I said . 
" Tell me about the murder " . 
She told me . 
Zing was the creation of two men , Louis Thor and Bill Blake , partners in zing ! ! 
, Inc. . They 'd peddled the soap virtually alone , and without much success , until about a year ago , when -- with the addition of " SX-21 " to their secret formula and the inauguration of a high-powered advertising campaign -- sales had soared practically into orbit . 
Their product had been endorsed by Good Housekeeping , the A.M.A. , and the Veterinary Journal , among other repositories of higher wisdom , and before much longer if you did n't have a cake of their soap in the john , even your best friends would think you did n't bathe . 
My lovely caller -- Joyce Holland was her name -- had previously done three filmed commercials for zing , and this evening , the fourth , a super production , had been filmed at the home of Louis Thor . 
The water in Thor 's big swimming pool had been covered with a blanket of thick , foamy soapsuds -- fashioned , of course , from zing -- Joyce had dived from the board into the pool , then swirled and cavorted in her luxurious " bath " while cameras rolled . 
The finished -- and drastically cut -- product would begin with a hazy longshot of Joyce entering the suds , then bursting above the pool 's surface clad in layers of lavender lather , and I had a hunch this item was going to sell tons and tons of soap ; ; even to clean men and boys . 
Joyce went on , " When we 'd finished , Lou -- Mr. Thor -- asked me to stay a little longer . 
He wanted a few stills for magazine ads , he said . 
Everybody left and I stayed in the pool , then Lou came back alone and leaped into the pool too . 
And he did n't have any clothes on " . 
" He did n't " ! ! 
" Yes , he did n't . 
Did , I mean " . 
She paused . 
" Did leap into the pool , and did n't have anything on . 
Anyway , it was evident what he had in mind " . 
" You got away , did n't you " ? ? 
" Yes . 
He caught up with me once and grabbed me , but I was all covered with zing -- it 's very slippery , you know " . 
" I did n't know . 
I would n't have the stuff in the house . 
But I 'm pleased to hear " -- " So I just scooted out of his clutches . 
I swam like mad , got out of the pool , grabbed my robe , and ran to the car . 
The keys were still in it , and I was miles away before I remembered that my clothes and purse and everything were still in the little cabana where I 'd changed " . 
She 'd driven around for a while , Joyce said , then , thinking Louis Thor would have calmed down by that time , she 'd gone back to his home on Bryn Mawr Drive , parked in front , and walked toward the pool . 
While several yards from it , still concealed by the shrubbery , she 'd seen two men on her left at the pool 's edge . 
She went on : " A man was holding onto Lou , holding him up . 
Maybe Lou was only unconscious , but right then I thought he must be dead . 
The man shoved him into the water , then ran past the cabana . 
There 's a walk there that goes out to Quebec Drive . 
I was so scared well , I just ran to my car and came here " . 
" You know who the other man was " ? ? 
" No , I never did see his face . 
I did n't get a good look at him at all , his back was to me , and I was so scared It was just somebody in a man 's suit . 
But I 'm sure the other one was Lou " . 
What Joyce wanted me to do was go to Thor 's house and " do whatever detectives do " , and get her clothes -- and handbag containing her identification . 
She realized I 'd have to notify the police , but fervently hoped I could avoid mentioning her name . 
Her impact in the zing commercials had led to her being considered for an excellent part in an upcoming TV series , Underwater Western Eye , a documentary-type show to be sponsored by Oatnut Grits . 
But if Joyce got involved in murder or salacious scandal , the role would probably go to the sponsor 's wife , Mrs. Oatnut Grits . 
Or at least not to Joyce . 
" And I so want the part " , she said . 
" The commercials have just been for money , there has n't been any real incentive for me to do them , but in Underwater Western Eye I 'd have a chance to act . 
I could show what I can do " . 
As far as I was concerned , she had already and had dandily shown what she could do . 
But I promised Joyce I would mention her name , if at all , only as a last resort . 
Seeming much relieved , she smiled one of those worth-waiting-for smiles , and I smiled all the way into the bedroom . 
There I got my Colt Special and shoulder harness , slipped my coat on , and went back into the front room . 
Joyce squirmed a little on the divan . 
" I 'm starting to itch " , she said . 
" Itch " ? ? 
" Yes , I 'm still all covered with that soap . 
I was loaded with suds when I ran away , and I have n't had a chance to wash it off . 
Mmmm , it sure itches " . 
" You might as well wait here while I 'm gone , so you can use my shower if you 'd like " . 
" Oh , I 'd love to " . 
I showed her the shower and tub , and she said , smiling , " If you really do n't mind , I think I 'll get clean in the shower , then soak for a few minutes in your tub . 
That always relaxes me . 
Does n't it you " ? ? 
" Only when I do it " . 
I shook my head . 
One of my virtues or vices is a sort of three-dimensional imagination complete with sound effects and glorious living color . 
" Soak as long as you want , Joyce . 
It 'll probably be at least an hour or two before I can check back with you . 
So you 'll have everything all to yourself , doggone " I looked at my watch . 
Ten after nine . 
Time to go , I supposed . 
" Well , goodbye " , I said . 
" Goodbye . 
You 'd better hurry " . 
" Oh , you can count on that " . 
She smiled slightly . 
Softly . 
Warmly . 
" Do n't hurry too much . 
I 'll be soaking for at least half an hour " . 
That was all she said . 
But suddenly those hot-honey eyes seemed to have everything but swarms of bees in them . 
However , when there 's a job to be done , I 'm a monstrosity of grim determination , I like to think . 
I spun about and clattered through the front room to the door . 
As I went out , I could hear water pouring in the shower . 
Hot water . 
She would n't be taking a cold shower . 
Hell , she could n't . 
Bryn Mawr Drive is only two or three miles from the Spartan , and it took me less than five minutes to get there . 
But the scene was not the quiet , calm scene I 'd expected . 
Four cars were parked at the curb , and two of them were police radio cars . 
Lights blazed in the big house and surrounding grounds . 
I followed a shrubbery-lined gravel path alongside the house to the pool . 
Two uniformed officers , a couple of plain-clothesmen I knew , and two other men stood on a gray cement area next to the pool on my left . 
At the pool 's far end was the little cabana Joyce had mentioned , and on the water 's surface floated scattered lavender patches of limp-looking lather . 
A few yards beyond the group of men , a man 's nude body lay face down on a patch of thick green dichondra . 
Lieutenant Rawlins , one of the plain-clothesmen , spotted me and said , " Hi , Shell " , and walked toward me . 
" How 'd you hear about this one " ? ? 
I grinned , but ignored the question . 
He did n't push it ; ; Rawlins worked out of Central Homicide and we 'd been friends for years . 
He filled me in . 
A call to the police had been placed from here a couple of minutes after nine P.M. , and the first police car had arrived two or three minutes after that -- 10 minutes ago now . 
Present at the scene -- in addition to the dead man , who was indeed Louis Thor -- had been Thor 's partner Bill Blake , and Antony Rose , an advertising agency executive who handled the zing account . 
Neither of them , I understood , had been present at the filming session earlier . 
" What were they doing here " ? ? 
I asked Rawlins . 
" They were supposed to meet Thor at nine PM for a conference concerning the ad campaign for their soap , a new angle based on this SX-21 stuff " . 
" Yeah , I 've heard more about SX-21 than space exploration lately . 
What is the gunk " ? ? 
" How would I know ? ? 
It 's a secret . 
That was the new advertising angle -- something about a Lloyd 's of London policy to insure the secrecy of the secret ingredient . 
Actually , only two men know what the formula is , Blake and " -- He stopped and looked at Thor 's body . 
I said , " O.K. , so now only Blake knows . 
How 's it strike you , foul or fair " ? ? 
" Ca n't say yet . 
Deputy coroner says it looks like he sucked in a big pile of those thick suds and strangled on 'em . 
The PM might show he drowned instead , but that 's what the once-over-lightly gives us . 
Accident , murder , suicide -- take your pick " . 
" I 'll pick murder . 
Anything else " ? ? 
" According to Rose , he arrived here a couple minutes before nine and spotted Thor in the water , got a hooked pole from the pool-equipment locker and started hauling him out . 
