They were west of the Sabine , but only God knew where . 
For three days , their stolid oxen had plodded up a blazing valley as flat and featureless as a dead sea . 
Molten glare singed their eyelids an angry crimson ; ; suffocating air sapped their strength and strained their nerves to snapping ; ; dust choked their throats and lay like acid in their lungs . 
And the valley stretched endlessly out ahead , scorched and baked and writhing in its heat , until it vanished into the throbbing wall of fiery orange brown haze . 
Ben Prime extended his high-stepped stride until he could lay his goad across the noses of the oxen . 
" Hoa-whup " ! ! 
He commanded from his raw throat , and felt the pain of movement in his cracked , black burned lips . 
He removed his hat to let the trapped sweat cut rivulets through the dust film upon his gaunt face . 
He spat . 
The dust-thick saliva came from his mouth like balled cotton . 
He moved back to the wheel and stood there blowing , grasping the top of a spoke to still the trembling of his played-out limbs . 
The burning air dried his sweat-soaked clothes in salt-edged patches . 
He cleared his throat and wet his lips . 
As cheerfully as possible , he said , " Well , I guess we could all do with a little drink " . 
He unlashed the dipper and drew water from a barrel . 
They could no longer afford the luxury of the canvas sweat bag that cooled it by evaporation . 
The water was warm and stale and had a brackish taste . 
But it was water . 
Thank the Lord , they still had water ! ! 
He cleansed his mouth with a small quantity . 
He took a long but carefully controlled draught . 
He replenished the dipper and handed it to his young wife riding the hurricane deck . 
She took it grudgingly , her dark eyes baleful as they met his . 
She drank and pushed back her gingham bonnet to wet a kerchief and wipe her face . 
She set the dipper on the edge of the deck , leaving it for him to stretch after it while she looked on scornfully . 
" What happens when there 's no more water " ? ? 
She asked smolderingly . 
She was like charcoal , he thought -- dark , opaque , explosive . 
Her thick hair was the color and texture of charcoal . 
Her temper sparked like charcoal when it first lights up . 
And all the time , she had the heat of hatred in her , like charcoal that is burning on its under side , but not visibly . 
A ripple ran through the muscles of his jaws , but he kept control upon his voice . 
" There must be some water under there " . 
He tilted his homely face toward the dry bed of the river . 
" We can get it if we dig " , he said patiently . 
" And add fever to our troubles " ? ? 
She scoffed . 
" Or do you want to see if I can stand fever , too " ? ? 
" We can boil it " , he said . 
Her chin sharpened . 
" We 're lost and burning up already " , she bit out tensely . 
" The tires are rattling on the wheels now . 
They 'll roll off in another day . 
There was no valley like this on your map . 
You do n't even know where we 're headed " . 
" Hettie " , he said as gently as he could , " we 're still headed west . 
Somewhere , we 'll hit a trail " . 
" Somewhere ! ! 
" She repeated . 
" Maybe in time to make a cross and dig our graves " . 
His wide mouth compressed . 
In a way , he could n't blame her . 
He had picked out this pathless trail , instead of the common one , in a moment of romantic fancy , to give them privacy on their honeymoon . 
It had been a mistake , but anything would have been a mistake , as it turned out . 
It was n't the roughness and crudity and discomfort of the trip that had frightened her . 
She had hated the whole idea before they started . 
Actually , she had hated him before she ever saw him . 
It had been five days too late before he learned that she 'd gone through the wedding ceremony in a semitrance of laudanum , administered by her mother . 
The bitterness of their wedding night still ripped within him like an open wound . 
She had jumped away from his shy touch like a cat confronted by a sidewinder . 
He had left her inviolate , thinking familiarity would gentle her in time . 
But each mile westward , she had hated him the deeper . 
He stared at the dipper , turning it over and over in his wide , calloused hands . 
" I suppose " , he muttered , " I can sell the outfit for enough to send you home to your folks , once we find a settlement " . 
" Do n't try to be noble " ! ! 
Her laugh was hard . 
" They would n't have sold me in the first place if there 'd been food enough to go around " . 
He winced . 
" Hettie , they did n't sell you " , he said miserably . 
" They knew I was a good sharecrop farmer back in Carolina , but out West was a chance to build a real farm of our own . 
They thought it would be a chance for you to make a life out where nobody will be thought any better than the next except for just what 's inside of them . 
Without money or property , what would you have had at Baton Rouge " ? ? 
" I might have starved , but at least I would n't be fried to a crisp and soaked with dirt " ! ! 
He darkened under his heavy burn . 
His blue eyes sought the shimmering sea of haze ahead . 
To his puzzlement , there suddenly was no haze . 
The valley lay clear , and open to the eye , right up to the sharp-limbed line of gaunt , scoured hills that formed the horizon twenty miles ahead . 
Then he noticed the clouds racing upon them -- heavy , ominous , leaden clouds that formed even as they sliced over the crests of the surrounding hills . 
He had never seen clouds like them before , but he had the primitive feel of danger that gripped a man before a hurricane in Carolina . 
He hollered hoarsely , " Hang on " ! ! 
And goaded the oxen as he yelled . 
He wanted to turn them , putting the wagon against the storm . 
Too late , he realized that in turning , he had wheeled them onto a patch of sandy ground , instead of atop a grade or ridge . 
He swung up over the wheel . 
" You had better get inside " , he warned her . 
But she sat on in stubborn silence . 
The clouds bulged downward and burst suddenly into a great black funnel . 
Frozen , they stared at it whirling down the valley , gouging and spitting out boulders and chunks of earth like a starving hound dog cracking marrowbones . 
The six-ton Conestoga began to whip and shake . 
Their world turned black . 
It was filled with dust and wind and sound and violence . 
The heavens opened , pelting them with hail the size of walnuts . 
And then came the water -- not rain , but solid sheets that sluiced down like water slopping from a bucket . 
Walls of water rushed down the slopes and filled the hollows like the crests of flash floods . 
Through the splash of the rising waters , they could hear the roar of the river as it raged through its canyon , gnashing big chunks out of the banks . 
The jetting , frothing surface of the river reached the level of the runoff . 
The dangerous current upon the prairie ceased , but the water stood and kept on rising . 
They cringed under sodden covers , listening to the waves slop against the bottom . 
The cloudburst cut off abruptly . 
They were engulfed by the weird silence , broken only by the low , angry murmur of the river . 
Then the darkness thinned , and there was light again , and then bright sunlight . 
Beaten with fear and sound and wet and chill , they crawled to the hurricane deck and looked out haggardly at a world of water that reached clear to the surrounding hills . 
The water level was higher than their hubs . 
Only the heavy bones of the oxen kept them anchored . 
There was no real sign of the river now , just a roiling , oily ribbon of liquid movement through muddy waters that reached everywhere . 
Clumps of brush rode down the ribbon . 
Now and then , the glistening side of a half-swamped object showed as it swept past . 
The girl crawled out into the renewing warmth of the sunshine , hugging her shoulders and still trembling . 
Her face was pale but set and her dark eyes smoldered with blame for Ben . 
Out of compulsion to say something cheery , Ben Prime blurted , " Well , we were lucky to be on soft ground when the first floodheads hit . 
At least , the wheels dug in . 
The soaking will put life back in the wagon , too " . 
His wife did n't give a sign she 'd heard . 
She was watching a tree ride wildly down that roiling current . 
Somebody was riding the tree . 
It raced closer and they could see a woman with white hair , sitting astride an upright branch . 
She did not call out . 
But as the tree passed , she lifted an arm in gesture of better luck and farewell . 
They watched the tree until it twisted sharply on a bend . 
It speared up into the air , then sinking back , the up-jutting branch turned slowly . 
The pale blob of the woman disappeared . 
" There 's the one who 's lucky " ! ! 
The girl murmured harshly . 
Ben 's eyes strained with the bitter hurt , his homely face slashed with gray and crimson . 
Then he took off his wet boots and dropped down into the water to talk with the beasts , needing their comfort more than they needed his . 
It was nearly sundown and he went to the back of the wagon , half-swimming his way , for he was not a tall man . 
He let down the tailgate and was knocked over by the sluice of water . 
He sputtered back to his feet and scrambled madly to pull his bags of seed grain forward . 
They were already swollen to bursting . 
Of all their worldly belongings , next to the oxen and his gun , the seed grain had been the most treasured . 
It was spoiled now for seed , and it would sour and mold in three days if they failed to find a place and fuel to dry it . 
The oxen might as well enjoy it . 
He examined the water marks on the iron tires when the animals were finished . 
The waters lay muddy but placid , without a ripple of movement against the wheels ; ; there was not a match-width of damp mark to show they were receding . 
He doubted if a man could wade as far as the desolate , dry hills that rimmed the valley . 
A terrible , numbing sense of futility swept over him . 
He gripped the wheel hard to fight the despondency of defeat . 
Then he noticed that the dry wood of the wheels had swollen . 
The spokes were tight again , the iron tires gripped onto the wheels as if of one piece . 
Hope surged within him . 
He swung toward the front to give the news to Hettie , then stopped , barred from her by the vehemence of her blame and hate . 
Still , he felt better . 
A tight wagon meant so much . 
He got a small fire started and put on bacon and coffee . 
He poured the water off the sourdough and off the flour , salvaging the chunky , watery messes for biscuits of a sort . 
Their jams and jellies had not suffered . 
He found a jar of preserved tomatoes and one of eggs that they had meant to save . 
Now he broke them open , hoping a good meal might lessen this depression crushing Hettie . 
His long nose wiggled at the smells of frizzling bacon and heating java , but the fire was low , and he wanted to waste no time . 
He furled the slashed sides of the canvas tarpaulins , leaving the ribs and wagon open . 
He looked thoughtfully at his wife 's trunk , holding her meager treasures . 
He said hesitantly , " Hettie , I do n't figure your things got wet too much . 
That 's a good trunk . 
If you want to get them aired " She said without turning her head , " After that rain beating in atop the dust , there is n't a thing that wo n't be streaked " . 
He drew a long breath and opened the trunk and hung out her clothes and spoilables upon the wagon ribs . 
