Early that day Matsuo saw a marine . 
The enemy came looming around a bend in the trail and Matsuo took a hasty shot , then fled without knowing the result , ran until breath was a pain in his chest and his legs were rubbery . 
As his feet slowed , he felt ashamed of the panic and resolved to make a stand . 
He crossed the next meadow and climbed a tree where the jungle trail resumed . 
In the leafiest part of the tree , straddling a broad horizontal limb , he could see over the meadow . 
For a while he was content to let events develop in their good time . 
He had no doubt the marine was the lead scout of a column , and while his shot had probably bred indecision , they would soon come hunting . 
His superiors had emphasized that marines tortured others for the sheer pleasure . 
Yesterday ; ; today ; ; tomorrow : no surrender . 
His remembering the self-dictate brought no peace -- only a faint chill of doubt . 
He murmured to himself , with firmness : " No surrender " . 
It was best to die fighting the marines . 
His superiors had also preached this , saying it was the way for eternal honor . 
What if the marines never came ? ? 
His comrades were all dead . 
He had no rice . 
Then it would be a choice between starvation and suicide . 
Whichever the way , he would rot in this vast choking green , his wife never to receive an urn of his ashes . 
He sighed and leaned for a moment against the trunk . 
His fingers touched the bone handle of a knife . 
The knife , an ammunition pouch , and a half-filled bottle of purified water hung on his belt . 
Besides the belt he wore a loin cloth . 
As he looked up from picking at a leg ulcer , he saw a marine in the jungle across the clearing . 
Gloom receded . 
The marine came to the edge of the green jungle mist and stayed , as though debating whether to brave the sunlight . 
His fatigues made a streak of almost phosphorescent green in the mist . 
" Come out , come out in the meadow " , Matsuo said under his breath . 
The man leaned against a tree and wiped a sleeve across his face . 
A signal ? ? 
Matsuo lifted his rifle , easing the sling under his left upper arm for steadiness . 
Fresh on his mind were events of the past day when his whole regiment was destroyed in the hills . 
They had fought from caves , and the marines resorted to burning them out . 
Even now , like a ringing in his ears , he heard the wooooosh of flame-throwers squirting great orange billows . 
A wave of flame rippling through their cave had reached Nagamo , his friend , and with a shriek the man bolted through the entrance , then slowed to the jerky walk of a puppet , his uniform blazing . 
The marines let him advance . 
When he sank on his knees , they had allowed him to char without administering the stroke of mercy . 
Matsuo had faked death and was pitched on a stack of corpses , both the burned and the unburned , the latter decomposing rapidly under the tropical sun . 
The callous marines had laughed at each other 's retching , while stacking bodies . 
Matsuo repeatedly choked down his own nausea . 
At nightfall he had been able to sneak down a hillside and into the jungle , reeking of death . 
Apprehensively he peered to the left , to the right into the leafy , vine-crisscrossed maze . 
He decided that the marines must be deploying around the meadow , with the one left to distract him . 
He strained his hearing . 
Cautious feet stepping on leafmold ; ; faint creaking of belts and slings ; ; whispers : he heard none of these . 
Only the hum of insects and the distant fluttering call of a bird . 
Because he could n't hear them , he was more convinced they were there . 
A spectacle occurred across the meadow : the lone marine took a seat on the ground ; ; leaning sidewise on a tree trunk , he embraced it . 
Humiliation made Matsuo tremble . 
While his comrades cocked the trap , that one behaved as if it was some dull maneuver . 
Taking aim at the man 's face , Matsuo squeezed the trigger up to the point of discharge , and then he changed his mind . 
He wanted the arrogant marine to know fear , and so he aimed above the head . 
The shot reverberated in diminishing whiplashes of sound . 
Hush followed . 
Like a mischievous boy expecting punishment , Matsuo awaited reaction from the jungle . 
How stupid to give his position away . 
The jungle did not retort . 
The sitter remained seated hugging the tree . 
Before long the atmosphere reverted to its old normalcy , and insects hummed and birds occasionally called . 
Matsuo puzzled and grew anxious over the complete passiveness , concluding that he was the butt of a devilish joke . 
Five or so minutes later the marine abruptly pulled up and stepped into sunlight , immediately throwing his hands over his eyes . 
He went into a whirling dance , a sort of blind chasing of the tail . 
It ended when he tumbled ; ; but jumping right up , he staggered in no particular direction . 
He wore no head cover of any kind and , more odd , had no visible weapon . 
With a sudden decisiveness he lurched in Matsuo 's direction , crossing the meadow in a zigzagging gallop . 
When he got closer to the tree , Matsuo noted the wild look on his face . 
The pockets of his jacket bulged . 
Hand grenades . 
The bobbing head was a poor target , so Matsuo shot him in the upper trunk . 
The marine spun , clapping a hand high on his chest , and dived forward . 
In the hush that followed the echoes , Matsuo was tense . 
They could come on him now without difficulty . 
Gradually he reached a conclusion . 
The marine was alone , for they were impatient people and by now would have vied to knock him from the tree . 
Down the tree he scrambled and knelt at the edge of foliage . 
The marine was sprawled some thirty yards away , one arm extended . 
Matsuo jumped when the hidden arm flopped out . 
Reflex ? ? 
Rifle leveled on the man , he made a rush . 
Heat , in the sunlight , pressed in like an invisible crowd . 
He squatted by the head , gently placing the rifle on the ground . 
With a snakestrike motion he grasped the hair , and , twisting , pulled the marine over on his back . 
He was bearded . 
The bullet had penetrated in the area of the right collarbone ; ; around the hole , blood glistened in a little patch . 
Maintaining his clutch on the hair , Matsuo watched the closed eyes while rummaging in the jacket pockets . 
In one : a package of cigarettes and a tinplated lighter , both sticky from the man 's bleeding . 
In the other : a wristwatch with broken crystal wrapped in a dirty handkerchief . 
One by one he tossed the objects aside . 
He did n't smoke and could not light fires with a flintless lighter ; ; he had no use any longer for exact time , even had the watch been running . 
Then there was no saying how many times the marine had blown his nose on the handkerchief . 
Too bad the marine had no water . 
From its holder he took his own canteen . 
The cap was stuck and made a thin rusty squeaking as he applied pressure . 
The marine 's eyes opened , squeezed shut , then opened squinted in the glare . 
So , alive . 
Matsuo put the bottle to his own lips . 
The marine reached up a hand . 
Matsuo shook his head . 
" None for you " . 
The marine blinked , soon dropping his hand . 
Not only had he no canteen , but he lacked even the belt to hang one on . 
" You came well equipped to die " . 
Some odor made him lean over the man . 
He sniffed and recognized it . 
Sake . 
So that had been his difficulty . 
Drunk on sake , he must have wandered off from his bivouac . 
The marine tried to roll on his right side , and moaned . 
When he rolled on the left side , propping on his left elbow , Matsuo seized his hair and pulled him back over . 
" Be a good turtle " . 
Awkwardly with one hand Matsuo got the cap back on the water bottle . 
The smell of sake had freshened yesterday 's events in his thoughts . 
In the caves , with other supplies , they had kept cases of sake . 
The marine shut his eyes . 
" Are you a thrower of flame , marine " ? ? 
Matsuo took the small knife from its scabbard and laid it on the ground , out of the marine 's reach and away from their shadows . 
He waited in his squat , gripping the hair . 
Every so often he turned the knife . 
Its blade was dazzling in the intense sunlight . 
The sun was noon high and Matsuo perspired until his body was dripping . 
Wet also were the marine 's fatigues and the face had an oily film . 
The man had thrown the left hand over his eyes . 
Now and again he murmured something that ended in a giggle . 
He must have saturated himself in the drink , for the bullet not to shock him out of his drunken haze . 
Matsuo shook his head . 
Strange . 
At last he reached for the knife . 
Even the bone handle scorched , and he retrieved the marine 's handkerchief to wrap it . 
First he barely touched the blade on the hand which shaded the eyes . 
The marine yelled and flung the hand away . 
With a firm grip on the man 's hair Matsuo applied the blade flat on a cheek . 
A shrill yelp , kicked legs , and groping hands that circled Matsuo 's wrist . 
Matsuo wrenched free and burned the hands into retreat ; ; burned the other cheek ; ; burned each hand when they came groping again . 
The marine commenced to weep and it blighted the sense of enjoyment . 
Matsuo stood up . 
" A small measure of payment , marine " . 
He dropped the knife in its scabbard , hung the rifle behind a shoulder . 
The marine , hands on cheeks , rolled by his unwounded side onto his stomach . 
He ceased weeping . 
Matsuo walked toward his tree , once glancing back . 
The marine was still . 
He would soon die . 
As Matsuo climbed by using the vines and kicking his feet against the trunk , a mood of gloom immersed him like a jungle shadow . 
What now ? ? 
In the jungle , birds were mute , while insects preserved only the monotony of living . 
Someone called . 
It was the marine : head lifted , he strained and called . 
Then he astonished Matsuo by pushing and dragging himself until he sat . 
He cupped his mouth and yelled . 
Matsuo hustled the rifle off his shoulder . 
Once and for all he 'd finish this marine who would not die . 
He aimed , but listened . 
It sounded as if the man were calling him : " Hey , Japanese hey there , Japanese " . 
The man tilted back his head and went through the pantomime of drinking from a container . 
He performed the act twice more , and the begging in his tone grew more distinct . 
" Sake " ? ? 
Matsuo called . 
The marine nodded vigorously . 
Matsuo laughed , slung the rifle . 
The marine was a winehead . 
His superiors had said that all marines were depraved . 
The marine slumped forward into a bow like a priest before an idol . 
Remembering his own thirst , Matsuo took out his water bottle . 
One swallow was all he would have ; ; he was very thirsty , but he must observe water discipline . 
His years of campaigning had taught him the value of water discipline . 
He began to uncap the bottle , the rusty cap squealing on its threads . 
Popping upright , the marine waved both hands and shouted . 
Of course it was water he really craved ; ; down in the broil of the sun he was becoming dried out . 
The marine shouted for it until it seemed that his voice had to crack . 
Matsuo shook his head . 
He had no water for an enemy . 
And when this was gone , he had n't even a little bitter tablet to purify other water if he were to discover some stagnant jungle pool . 
He capped the bottle and replaced it . 
After all , he had less reason to desire it than the marine . 
Before much longer the marine quieted down . 
His head slumped . 
The upper part of his packet had stained dark . 
" Marine . 
There is nothing for you " , Matsuo said . 
" Your superiors will certainly beat you for your desertion , besides the dishonor of it . 
I 've nothing for you " . 
From the convulsive quivers of the man 's shoulders it was plain he had resumed the weeping . 
He reminded Matsuo of a similar thing he had witnessed in China . 
In China it was a baby sitting on a railroad platform , smudged , blood-specked , with the village burning about him and shells exploding . 
