Such was my state of mind that I did not question the possibility of this ; ; under the circumstances I was only too willing to confess all . 
I was nearly thirty at the time . 
I went to the hall in the afternoons only , on these preliminary matters . 
It was dark and , I sensed , very large ; ; only the counter at one end was lighted by a long fluorescent tube suspended directly above it . 
Sometimes I was aware of people moving about in the darkness . 
I would turn away from my writing in the hope of getting a good look at them but I never quite succeeded . 
A glimpse of three of four vague figures , at the most . 
Drifting here and there . 
Squatting , as if waiting . 
The pulsing glow of a cigarette . 
Since they could see me but I not them , their presence in the hall disturbed me . 
The clerk paid them no attention . 
This impressed me , until I realized how limited was his sphere of influence . 
His job simply consisted in registering new men . 
When the phone rang he answered it . 
His authority extended to the far edge of the counter , no further . 
None of the men hanging around the hall bothered to speak to him . 
Baldness was attacking his pate . 
He spoke to me in a gruff voice , an affectation which quite belied his personality . 
He wore his white shirt open at the neck , revealing a bit of scrawny pale chest underneath . 
It was obvious that he wished himself different from the sort of person he thought he was . 
But it was not easy for him and he often slipped . 
When one of the men in the hall behind us spat on the floor and scraped his boot over the gob of spittle I noticed how the clerk winced . 
I felt certain he was really a spineless little man . 
His hat ( the cause of his baldness ? ? 
) hung on a hook on the wall , and underneath it I could see his tie , knotted , ready to be slipped over his head , a black badge of frayed respectability that ought never to have left his neck . 
The morning 's tabloids were on the counter , and a stack of dog-eared men 's magazines . 
On a shelf in the office behind the counter was a small radio dialed permanently on a station which broadcast only vulgar commercials and cheap popular music . 
Everything about the clerk was trivial . 
Once , pressing him , I learned that his job was only part-time , in the afternoons when nothing went on in the hall . 
Noticing my disappointment he attempted to salvage what scraps and shreds of authority he felt might still be clinging to his person . 
With distaste I saw him assume a pompous air . 
When he saw me coming he turned his radio off . 
He made a show of rearranging my forms on the shelf . 
He would pick up the ringing phone with studied negligence , then bark into it with gruff importance . 
What limited knowledge he possessed he forced upon me . 
In the mornings , I was informed , fluorescent tubes , similar to the one above the counter , illuminated the entire hall . 
They , and the two large fans which I could dimly see as daylight filtered through their vents , down at the far end of the hall , could be turned on by a master switch situated inside the office . 
He pointed out the switch to me and for a moment I foolishly believed that he would let deed follow words . 
I was shown , instead , a batch of white tickets of the sort handed out , he told me , every morning . 
Now , here was something of obvious importance to me , yet when I reached for the tickets he snatched them away from my hand . 
He could n't afford to have anyone mess around with them , he said . 
Each of those tickets was of great value to its rightful recipient . 
I withdrew my hand . 
Later I would remember what this pompous little man had told me about the worth of a ticket . 
Having nothing else to do except wait for my forms to be processed , I gave myself over to speculations concerning the hall itself . 
When suitably lighted , what would it look like ? ? 
The presence of the two exhaust fans seemed to indicate that the hall could become crowded for air . 
One afternoon , upon receiving permission and the necessary instructions from the clerk , I had visited the toilet adjoining the hall . 
By counting the number of stalls and urinals I attempted to form a loose estimate of how many men the hall would hold at one time . 
For although I had crossed a corner of the hall on my way to the toilet I still could not tell for sure how far to the rear the darkness extended . 
I could observe the two fans down at the end , but their size in themselves meant nothing to me as long as I had no measure of comparison . 
I had for some time been hoping , in vain , for one of the dim figures to pass between the fan vents and myself . 
I knew that three or four of them were almost always present in the hall , but what they were doing , and exactly where , I could not tell . 
It was , I felt , possible that they were men who , having received no tickets for that day , had remained in the hall , to sleep perhaps , in the corners farthest removed from the counter with its overhead light . 
This light did not penetrate very far back into the hall , and my eyes were hindered rather than aided by the dim daylight entering through the fan vents when I tried to pick out whatever might be lying , or squatting , on the floor below . 
Also the clerk appeared to disapprove of my frequent curious glances back over my shoulder . 
No sooner would I turn my head away from the counter before he would address me , at times quite sharply , in order to bring back my attention . 
And I had hardly finished my business in the toilet on the aforementioned occasion when the lights in that place , like the hall lights controlled from the switch in the office , flicked off and on impatiently . 
This sort of petty vigilance annoyed me . 
I felt certain it was self-appointed . 
It sprang from a type of mentality I 'd encountered often enough but certainly had not expected to find here . 
I decided to see no more of the clerk until the processing of my papers was completed . 
I felt strongly attached to the hall , however , and hardly a day passed when I did not go to look at it from a distance . 
I lived in a state of suspense because of it . 
I could not cling to my past nor did I wish to . 
I had signed it off on the forms . 
My future lay solely with the hall , yet what did I know about the hall at this point ? ? 
Although I had been inside it I had not yet seen it functioning . 
I wished to prepare myself but did not even know what sort of clothes I ought to be wearing . 
I did not despair , however ; ; far from it ! ! 
I was constantly searching for clues around the neighborhood of the hall . 
Though only a relatively short walk separated it from my own part of town , its character was wholly foreign to me . 
Large warehouses flanked the street on which the hall fronted . 
The river was only a few blocks away but an unbroken line of piers prevented me from seeing it . 
Sometimes I noticed the tops of ships ' masts and funnels reaching above the pier roofs . 
The sounds issuing from beyond -- winches whirring , men shouting -- indicated great activity and excited me . 
The hall , on the other hand , appeared lifeless and deserted on these long waterfront afternoons . 
It resembled nothing I 'd ever seen before . 
Its front was windowless , but irregularities in the masonry might be an indication that windows , now blinded , had once looked out upon the street . 
I kept circling the block hoping to see , from the street behind it , the rear of the hall . 
But it was not a tall structure and other buildings concealed it . 
For weeks I wandered about this neighborhood of warehouses and garages , truck terminals and taxi repair shops , gasoline pumps and longshoremen 's lunch counters , yet never did I cease to feel myself a stranger there . 
I returned to the hall , despite my dislike for the clerk . 
As I had expected , he insisted that my visits to the hall would do nothing to further the process of my application . 
Meanwhile spring had passed well into summer . 
At last , when I put it to him directly , the clerk was forced to admit that the delay in my case was unusual . 
When I asked him what , if anything , I could do about it , he surprised me by referring me to the director of the hall . 
I could consult this personage on any weekday morning , though not before ten o'clock . 
The clerk impressed this upon me : that I should not arrive in the hall before ten o'clock . 
When I went for my interview with the director I saw why . 
Although it was dark as usual I could see that the hall had only recently contained a great many people . 
Cigarette butts littered the floor . 
The big fans were going , drawing from the large room the remnants of stale smoke which drifted about in pale strata underneath the ceiling . 
I had felt the draft they were making while mounting the stairs . 
The staircase itself seemed still to be echoing the heavy footfalls of many men . 
I stopped by the counter . 
No one was behind it , but in the rear wall of the office I noticed , for the first time , a door which had been left partially open . 
Past it I could see part part of a desk , a flag in a corner , a rug on the floor . 
The director 's office . 
I rapped my knuckles on the counter . 
The director came to the door . 
I was at once disappointed , although just what I had expected him to look like I could not have explained . 
He was a man in his late forties , with graying hair , of medium height ; ; he looked dapper in a lightweight summer suit , brown silk tie and green-tinted soft collar . 
He wore perforated , white-topped shoes ; ; they somehow made me expect to see him launch into a vaudeville tapdance routine any moment . 
But he came toward me sedately enough , showed me around the counter , offered me a seat inside his office , then walked to a file cabinet and got out my application . 
I had the impression that he had read my forms , perhaps several times . 
He did not look at them now . 
As he lowered himself on the chair behind his desk I wondered what this dapper , slightly ridiculous man could possibly have to do with the workings of the hall . 
He spoke , in a voice as immaculate as his appearance . 
Why had I registered ? ? 
Begging my pardon , he must express his astonishment over seeing a person of my background applying at the hall . 
He had looked over my forms and was impressed by what he had seen there ; ; indeed , my scholastic qualifications were such that he , a college graduate himself , must envy me them . 
Was I sure , he asked , that I knew what I was applying for ? ? 
What sort of men I would come into contact with , at the hall ? ? 
These questions did not surprise me ; ; I felt certain that the director , like the afternoon clerk , seldom moved beyond the counter , that the hall , to them , was a jungle , a dark and unwelcome place . 
Though I doubted that he would understand me , I told the director my motives for applying . 
I had always , I said , hankered after working hard with my hands . 
This desire , I went on , growing voluble as my conviction was aroused , had mounted at such a rate recently that I now found its realization necessary not only to my physical but also to my spiritual wellbeing . 
To this effect I had already severed all connections which bound me to my former existence . 
