Over the rattling of fenders , humming of tires and chattering of gears there was a charming melody of whispers and tiny giggles . 
Cool air moving slowly through the open or smashed-out side windows hinted of blooming roadside vegetation , and occasionally a faint fragrance of perfume swirled from the back seat . 
" Moriarty " , my driver suddenly exclaimed with something so definite , so final in his tone I once more repeated the absurdity , mustering all my latent powers of hypocrisy to sound convinced . 
We were coming to an intersection , turning right , chuffing to a stop . 
Forced to realize that this was the end of a very short line I scanned a road marker and discovered what the end of a slightly longer line would be for the old Mexican : Moriarty , New Mexico . 
" Gracias . 
Adios " , I said , exhausting my Spanish vocabulary on my host and exchanging one of a scarcely-tapped store of smiles with my host 's daughters . 
I waved with discretion and moderation to the vague golden faces fading through rising dust and the distortions of the back window glass . 
Then I saw the father 's head slightly turn ; ; gauche rainbow shapes replaced the poignant ovals of gold . 
Autos whizzed past . 
White-shirted and conservatively-cravated drivers stared conspicuously toward the eastern horizon and past my supplicating and accusing gaze . 
Suddenly a treble auto horn tootley-toot-tootled , and , thumbing hopefully , I saw emergent in windshield flash : red lips , streaming silk of blonde hair and -- ah , trembling confusion of hope , apprehension , despair -- the leering face of old Herry . 
" Mor-ee-air-teeeee " , he shrieked , his white teeth grossly counterpointing those of the glittering blonde . 
Over the rapidly-diminishing outline of a jump seat piled high with luggage Herry 's black brushcut was just discernible , near , or enviably near that spot where -- hidden -- more delicately-textured , most beautifully tinted hair must still be streaming back in cool , oh cool wind sweetly perfumed with sagebrush and yucca flowers and engine fumes . 
Damn his luck . 
I would have foregone my romantic chances rather than leave a friend sweltering and dusty and -- Well , at least I would n't have shouted back a taunt . 
Still nursing anger I listlessly thumbed a car that was slowly approaching , its pre-war chrome nearly blinding me . 
It was stopping . 
Just as I straightened up with my duffel bag , I heard : " Sahjunt Yoorick , meet Mrs. Major J. A. Roebuck " . 
The voice was that of Johnson , tail gunner off another crew . 
Squeezing a look between Johnson 's fat jowls and the car frame a handsome and still darkhaired lady inquired " Y'all drahve " ? ? 
I nodded . 
" Onleh one thiihng " , Mrs. Roebuck continued . 
" Ah- m goin nawth t'- jawn mah husbun in Sante Fe , an y'all maht prefuh the suhthuhn rewt . 
But Corporal Johnson has alreadeh said it did- n make no diffrunce t'- hi-im " . 
I said that it did n't make any difference to me either , as far as I knew . 
How far I knew will shortly become apparent . 
Let me pass over the trip to Sante Fe with something of the same speed which made Mrs. Roebuck " wonduh if the wahtahm speed limit " ( 35 m.p.h. ) " is still in ee-faket " . 
I let up on the accelerator , only to gradually reach again the 60 m.p.h. which would , I hoped , overhaul Herry and the blonde , and as there were cars whose drivers apparently had something more important to catch than had I , Mrs. Major Roebuck settled down to practicing on Corporal Johnson the kittenish wiles she would need when making her duty call on Colonel and Mrs. Somebody in Sante Fe . 
When Johnson ejaculated " Howsabout my buying us all a nice cold Co-cola , Ma'am " ? ? 
Mrs. Roebuck smilingly declined and began suddenly to go on about her son , who was " onleh a little younguh than you bawhs " . 
Johnson never would have believed she had a son that age . 
Mrs. Roebuck thought Johnson was a " sweet bawh t'- lah lahk thet " , but her Herman was getting to be a man , there was no getting around it . 
" Just befoh he left foh his academeh we wuh hevin dack-rihs on the vuhranduh , Major Roebuck an Ah , an Huhmun says ' May Ah hev one too ' ? ? 
Just as p'lite an -- an cohnfidunt , an Ah says ` Uh coahse you cain n't ' , but he says ` Whah nawt , you ah hevin one ' ? ? 
An Ah coud- n ansuh him an so Ah said ' Aw right , Ah gay-ess , an his fathuh did- n uttuh one wohd an aftuh Huhmun was gone , the majuh laughed an tole me thet he an the bawh had been hevin an occasional drink t'gethuh f'- ovuh a yeah , onleh an occasional one , but just the same it was behahn mah back , an Ah doa- n think thet 's nahce at all , d'- you " ? ? 
" No , I do n't " , Johnson said . 
" I 'm a good Baptist , and drinking " Mrs. Roebuck very kindly let me drive through Sante Fe to a road which would , she said , lead us to Taos and then Raton and " eventshahleh " out of New Mexico . 
How lightly her " eventshah-leh " passed into the crannies where I was storing dialect material for some vaguely dreamed opus , and how the word would echo . 
And re-echo . 
Hardly had Mrs. Roebuck driven off when a rusty pick-up truck , father or grandfather of Senor " Moriarty 's " Ford sedan , came screeching to a dust-swirling stop , and a brown face appeared , its nose threatened by shards of what had once been the side window . 
" Get in , buddies . 
Get in " . 
The straight , black hair flopped in a vigorous nod , the slender nose plunged toward glass teeth and drew safely back . 
Johnson unwired the right hand door , whose window was , like the left one , merely loosely-taped fragments of glass , and Johnson wadded himself into a narrow seat made still more narrow by three cases of beer . 
" In back , buddy " , the driver said to me . 
Quickly but carefully lowering my duffel bag over the low side-rack , I stepped on the running board ; ; it flopped down , sprang back up and gouged my shin . 
The truck was hurtling forward . 
I seized the rack and made a western-style flying-mount just in time , one of my knees mercifully landing on my duffel bag -- and merely wrecking my camera , I was to discover later -- my other knee landing on the slivery truck floor boards and -- but this is no medical report . 
I was again in motion and at a speed which belied the truck 's similarity to Senor X 's Ford turtle . 
Maybe I would beat old Herry to Siberia after all . 
Whatever satisfaction that might offer . 
Something pulled my leg . 
I drew back , drawing back my foot for a kick . 
But it was only Johnson reaching around the wire chicken fencing , which half covered the truck cab 's glassless rear window . 
The way his red rubber lips were stretched across his pearly little teeth I thought he was only having a little joke , but , no , he wanted me to bend down from the roar of wind so he could roar something into my ear . 
" Wann- a beer " ? ? 
" Hell , yes " , I roared back between dusty lips . 
Did I want a beer ? ? 
Did an anteater want ants ? ? 
" Bueno , amigo . 
Gracias " , I hollered , my first long swallow filling me with confidence and immediately doubling the size of my Spanish vocabulary . 
At once my ears were drowned by a flow of what I took to be Spanish , but -- the driver 's white teeth flashing at me , the road wildly veering beyond his glistening hair , beyond his gesticulating bottle -- it could have been the purest Oxford English I was half hearing ; ; I would n't have known the difference . 
Johnson was trying to grab the wheel , though the swerve of the truck was throwing him away from it . 
White teeth suddenly vanishing , the driver slammed the side of his bottle against Johnson 's ear . 
We were off the road , gleaming barbed wire pulling taut . 
I ducked just as the first strand broke somewhere down the line and came whipping over the sideboards . 
We were in a field , in a tight , screeching turn . 
Prairie dogs were popping up and popping down . 
When I fell on my back , I saw a vulture hovering . 
Just as I got to my knees , there was again the sound of the fence stretching , and I had time only to start taking my kneeling posture seriously . 
This time no wire came whipping into the truck . 
We were back on the road . 
I regained my squatting position behind the truck cab 's rear window . 
Johnson 's left hand was pressed against the side of his head , red cheeks whitening beneath his fingers . 
" Tee-wah " , the driver cackled , his black eyes glittering behind dull silver chicken fencing . 
" That was Tee-wah I was talking . 
You thought I was a Mexican , did n't you , buddy " ? ? 
I nodded . 
" Hell , that 's all right , buddy " , the Indian ( I now guessed ) said . 
" Drink your beer " . 
Miraculously , the bottle was still in my hand , foam still geysering over my ( luckily ) waterproof watch . 
No sooner had I started drinking than the driver started zigzagging the truck . 
The beer foamed furiously . 
I drank furiously . 
A long time . 
Emptied the bottle . 
Teeth again flashing back at me , the driver released a deluge of Spanish in which " amigo " appeared every so often like an island in the stormy waves of surrounding sound . 
I bobbed my head each time it appeared . 
Suddenly the Spanish became an English in which only one word emerged with clarity and precision , " son of a bitch " , sometimes hyphenated by vicious jabs of a beer bottle into Johnson 's quivering ribs . 
A big car was approaching , its chrome teeth grinning . 
Beyond it the gray road stretched a long , long way . 
The car was just about to us , its driver 's fat , solemn face intent on the road ahead , on business , on a family in Sante Fe -- on anything but an old pick-up truck in which two human beings desperately needed rescue . 
I tossed the bottle . 
High , so it would only bounce harmlessly but loudly off the car 's steel roof . 
Too high . 
On unoccupied roadway the bottle shattered into a small amber flash . 
" Aye-yah-ah-ah " ! ! 
The Indian was again raising his bottle , but to my astonished relief -- probably only a fraction of Johnson 's -- the bottle this time went to the Indian 's lips . 
Another car was coming , a tiny , dark shape on a far hill . 
I started looking on the splintery truck bed for a piece of board , a dirt clod -- anything I could throw and with better aim than I had thrown the beer bottle . 
We were slowing . 
In the ditch sand was white and soft-looking , only an occasional pebble discernible , faintly gleaming . 
But Johnson could n't quickly unwire the truck door , and if I escaped , he might suffer . 
The car was approaching fast . 
On the truck bed there was nothing smaller than a piece of rusty machinery ; ; with more time I could have loosened a small burr or cotter pin -- Suddenly and not a second too soon I thought of the coins in my pocket . 
There was no time to pick out a penny ; ; I got a coin between my thumb and forefinger , leaned my elbows in a very natural and casual manner on top of the truck cab and flipped my little missile . 
There was a blur just under my focus of vision , a crash ; ; the car 's far windshield panel turned into a silver web with a dark hole in the center . 
I heard the screech of brakes behind me , an insane burst of laughter beneath me . 
Looking back I saw a gray-haired man getting out of his halted car and trying to read our license number . 
" S-s-sahjunt " . 
Johnson 's fat hand , another bottle were protruding from the truck cab , and that self-proclaimed Baptist teetotaler , had a bottle at his own lips . 
Two cars came over a crest , their chrome and glass flashing . 
The Indian 's arm whipped sidewise -- there was a flash of amber and froth , the crash of the bottle shattering against the side of the first car . 
Brakes shrieked behind us . 
I saw Johnson 's bottle snatched from his hand , saw it go in a swirl of foam just behind the second car . 
This time there was no sound of brakes but the shrieking of women . 
I looked back at pale ovals framed in the elongated oval of the car 's rear window . 
" Drink , you son of a bitch " ! ! 
I quickly turned around and began to drink . 
But the Indian was jabbing another bottle toward Johnson . 
