" Bastards " , he would say , " all I did was put a beat to that Vivaldi stuff , and the first chair clobbered me " ! ! 
Since then , and since the pure grain had gotten him divorced from every decent -- and even indecent -- group from Greenwich Village to the Embarcadero , he had become a sucker-rolling freight-jumper . 
" There ai n't nothin ' faster , or lonelier , or more direct than a cannonball freight when you wan- na go someplace " , Feathertop would say . 
" The accommodations may not be the poshest , but man ! ! 
There ai n't nobody askin ' for your ticket stub , neither " . 
He had been conning the freights for a long , long time now . 
Ever since the hooch , and the trouble with the Quartet , and Midge and the child . 
Ever since all that . 
It had been a very long time that had no form and no end . 
He was -- as he told himself in the vernacular of a trade no longer his own -- riding the dark train out . 
Out and out and never to return again . 
Till one day the last freight had been jumped , the last pint had been killed , the last beat had been rapped . 
That was the day it ended . 
The freight car was cold , early in the morning . 
He was pressed far back into the corner of the car on his hay sacks , the rattling and tinning of the wheels on the rails almost covering the sound of his ocarina . 
He held his elbows away from his body , and the little sweet potato trilled neatly and sweetly as he tickled its tune-belly . 
The train slowed at a road crossing , and the big door slid open ; ; at first gratingly , caught by grains of corn -- then with a clash into its slot . 
The boy lifted the girl by the waist and set her on the lip of the floor . 
She pulled her legs up under her , to rise , her full peasant skirt drawing up her thighs , and Feathertop 's music pfffted away . 
" Now that is a very nice , a very nice " , he murmured to himself , back in his corner . 
A little thing , but the right twist for the action that counted . 
Hot , that was the word , hot ! ! 
Hair like a morning-frightened sparrow 's wings , with the sun shining down over them . 
A poet , yet ! ! 
His thoughts for the swanlike neck , the full , high breasts , the slim waist , and the long legs were less than poetic , however . 
Zingggg-O ! ! 
Then the boy straight-armed himself up , twisting at the last moment so he landed sitting . 
He was less to see , but Feathertop took him in , too , just to keep the records straight . 
Curly hair , high cheekbones , wide gnomelike mouth , a pair of drummer 's blocky hands , and a body that said well , maybe I can wrestle you for ten minutes -- but then I 'm finished . 
" We made it , Cappy " , the chick said . 
" Yeah , seems so , do n't it " , the boy laughed , hugging her close . 
" Ah-ah " ! ! 
Feathertop interrupted , standing up , brushing the pig offal from his dirty pants . 
" None of that . 
We run a respectable house here " . 
They whirled and saw him , standing there dim in the slatted light from the boarded freight wall . 
He was big , and filthy , and his toes stuck out of the flapping tops of his shoes . 
He held the black plastic kazoo lightly . 
" Come sit " , said Feathertop , motioning them toward him . 
" That crap is softer over here " . 
The girl smiled , and started forward . 
The boy yanked her back hard , tugging her off her feet , and gathered her into the crook of his arm . 
" Now stay with me , Kitty " , he snapped irritably . 
" I vowed to take care of you -- and that 's what I 'm gon na do . 
We do n't know this guy " . 
" Oooo , square bit " , Feathertop screwed his face up . 
This guy was strictly from Outsville . 
But nowhere ! ! 
" What is with this vow jazz " ? ? 
Feathertop inquired , lounging against the freight 's vibrating wall . 
" We -- we eloped " , Cappy said . 
His head came up and he said it defiantly . 
" Well , congratulations " . 
Feathertop made an elaborate motion with his hand . 
These two were going to be easy pickins . 
They could n't have much dough , but then none of the freight-bums Feathertop rolled had much . 
And besides , the chick had a little something the others did n't have . 
That was gon na be fun collecting ! ! 
But not just yet . 
Feathertop was a connoisseur . 
He liked to savor his meat before he tasted it . 
" Come sit " , he repeated , motioning to the piled hay bags , over the pig leavings . 
" I 'm just a poor ex-jazz man , name of -- uh -- Boyd Smith " . 
He grinned at them wolfishly . 
" That ai n't your name , Mister " , the boy accused . 
" And you know -- you 're right " ! ! 
Feathertop aimed a finger at him . 
" Oh , come on , Cappy " , the girl chided . 
" He 's okay . 
He 's a nice guy " . 
She started to move toward the hay bags , dragging the reluctant Cappy behind her . 
Feathertop watched the smooth scissoring of her slim , trim legs as she walked to the bags , and tucked them beneath her , smoothing the skirt out in a wide circle . 
He cleared his throat ; ; it had been a long , hot while since he 'd seen anything as nice as this within grabbin ' distance . 
He had it all doped , of course . 
Slug the kid , grab his dough -- at least enough to get to Philadelphia -- and then have a rockin ' ball with the doll . 
Hmm -- diddle ! ! 
" Where 'd you come from , Mr . 
-- uh -- Mr. Smith " ? ? 
Kitty inquired politely . 
" Where from " ? ? 
He mused . 
" Out . 
I been riding train for a ways now " . 
They lapsed into silence , and the freight wallowed up a hill , scooted down the other side , shaking and clanking to itself . 
After a while , Kitty murmured something to Cappy , and he held her close , answering , " We 'll just have to wait till we pull into Philly , honey " . 
" What 's the matter , she wan- na go the bathroom " ? ? 
Ernie found it immensely funny . 
The boy scowled at him , and the girl looked shocked . 
" No ! ! 
Certainly not , I mean , no that is n't what I said " ! ! 
She snapped at him . 
" I only said I was hungry . 
We have n't had anything to eat all day " . 
Joviality suffused Feathertop Ernie Cargill 's voice as he reached behind him , pulling out a battered carpet bag , with leather handles . 
" Why ' n't ya say so , fellow travelers ! ! 
Why , we got dinner right here . 
C'mon , buddy , help me set up the kitchen and we 'll have food in a minute or two " . 
Cappy looked wary , but he moved off the floorboards and followed the dirty ex-musician to the center of the refuse-littered boxcar . 
Ernie crouched and opened the carpet bag . 
He took out a small packet filled with bits of charcoal , a deep pot of thin metal , some sheets of newspaper , a book of matches and a wrinkled and many-times folded piece of tin foil with holes in it . 
He put the charcoal in the pot , lit the paper with the matches , and carefully stretched the tin foil across the top of the pot . 
" A charcoal pit , man " , he said , indicating the slightly-smoking makeshift brazier . 
" Fan it " , he told Cappy , handing him a sheet of newspaper . 
" Yeah , but what 're we gon na eat ? ? 
Charcoal " ? ? 
" Fella " , Ernie waggled a dirty finger at the younger man , " you try my ever-lovin ' patience " . 
He reached once more into the carpet bag and brought up a package of wieners . 
" Hot dogs , man . 
Not the greatest , but they stick to your belly insides " . 
He ripped down the cellophane carefully , and laid three dogs on the tin foil . 
Almost immediately they began to sizzle . 
He looked up and grinned . 
" A Kroger 's self-serve " , he explained . 
" I self-served " . 
When they had licked the last of the wieners ' taste from their fingers , they settled back , and Cappy offered Ernie a cigarette . 
Nice kid , Ernie thought , too bad . 
" How come you 're riding the rods , kids like you " ? ? 
Ernie asked . 
Cappy looked down at his wide hands , and did not reply . 
But surprisingly , Kitty 's face came up and she said , " My father . 
He did n't want us to get married . 
So we ran away " . 
" Why did n't he want you to get hitched " ? ? 
This time even she did not answer . 
She looked down at her hands , too . 
After a few seconds , she said , " Dad did n't like Cappy . 
It was my fault " . 
Cappy 's head came around sharply . 
" Your fault , hell ! ! 
It was all my fault . 
If I 'd been careful it never woulda " -- he stopped abruptly . 
Ernie 's eyebrows went up . 
" What 's the matter " ? ? 
The girl still did not raise her eyes , but she added simply , " I 'm pregnant " . 
Cappy raged at himself . 
" Oh he was stupid , her old man ! ! 
You never heard nothin ' like it : Kitty 's gon na go have an abortion , and Kitty 's gon na go away to a convent , and Kitty 's this and Kitty 's that like he was nuts or somethin ' , y' know " ? ? 
Ernie nodded . 
This was a slightly different matter . 
He remembered Midge , and the child . 
But that had been a time before all this , a time he did n't think about . 
A time before the white lightning and the bumming had turned him inside out . 
But these kids were n't like him . 
Oh crap ! ! 
He thought , Pull out of it , old son . 
These are just another couple of characters to roll . 
What they got , you get . 
Now forget all this other . 
" Wann- a drink " ? ? 
Ernie offered , taking the pint of sweet lucy from his jacket pocket . 
" Yeah . 
Now that you offer " . 
The answer came from the open door of the boxcar . 
From the man who had leaped in from the high bank outside , as the train had slowed on the grade . 
Ernie stared at the man . 
He was big . 
Real big , with shoulders out to here , and hair all over him like a grizzly . 
Road gang , Ernie thought . 
" You gon na give me a drink , fella " ? ? 
The big man asked again , taking a step into the boxcar . 
Ernie hesitated a moment . 
This character could break him in half . 
" Sure " , he said , and lifted the pint to his own lips . 
He guzzled down three-quarters of the strong home-blend and proffered the remainder . 
The man stalked toward them , his big boots heavy on the wooden flooring . 
He took the bottle with undue belligerence , and making sucking noises with his thick lips , drained it completely . 
He threw his head back , closed his eyes , and belched ferociously . 
He belched again , and opening his eyes , threw the bottle out the open door . 
" Well , now " , he said , and reached into his pocket . 
" I did n't know I was gon na have company in this car " . 
" We 're going to Philadelphia " , Kitty said , pulling her skirt down around her legs all the more . 
" No , I do n't think so " , said the big man , and it was the final clincher for Ernie . 
He had suspected this guy was trouble , and now he was sure of it . 
" Maybe you and me will , girlie , but these two ai n't goin ' nowhere " . 
He advanced on them , and abruptly there was a shocked electricity in the car . 
Ernie was screaming inside himself : No , damn you , you ai n't gon na take my meal ticket away from me ! ! 
The newcomer stalked toward them , and Kitty shied back , her hand to her mouth . 
Her scream split up the silence of the car , accompanied by the rattling of the freight , and then Cappy came off the floor , his legs driving him hard . 
The kid hit the bigger man with an audible thwump ! ! 
And carried him backward in a footballer 's tackle . 
They went down in a heap and for a long minute there was nothing to see but flailing arms and legs . 
The kid showed for an instant , and his arm was cocked back . 
The fist went down into the pile of flesh , and Ernie heard the bigger man 's deeper voice go , " Aaawww " ! ! 
Then they were tumbling again , and the big man reached into the same pocket he had gone for earlier , and came up with a vicious switchblade . 
He held the knife aloft an instant -- an instant enough to press the stud . 
The blade came out with a snick ! ! 
He fisted the knife overhand , and drew back to plunge it into the kid 's throat . 
Kitty screamed insanely and her face was white . 
She grabbed at Feathertop 's sleeve and shrieked , " Help him ! ! 
Help him ! ! 
Do something " ! ! 
