Spencer said nothing . 
" Is there any word you would like to offer in your own defense " ? ? 
Spencer shook his head . 
Alexander said , " Answer me properly , Spencer " . 
Spencer was quiet for a moment longer , then he said , " There is nothing I want to say , Captain " . 
" Very well " . 
Alexander walked away . 
Naval procedure , he thought , had its moments of grim humor . 
Philip Spencer had cold-bloodedly planned the murder of his captain , yet it seemed in order to chide him for a lapse of proper address . 
During the morning hours , it became clear that the arrest of Spencer was having no sobering effect upon the men of the Somers . 
Those named in the Greek paper were manufacturing reasons to steal aft under pretence of some call of duty , so as to be near Spencer , watching an opportunity to communicate with him . 
Hostile glances were flashed at both Alexander and Gansevoort . 
The two met in the Captain 's cabin . 
" What is the next step , Captain " ? ? 
" More arrests , I fear " . 
In your opinion , who is this E. Andrews on the ' certain ' list " ? ? 
" Cromwell , of course . 
He is the oldest and most experienced of the lot . 
He saw the dangers , not the glories of being identified as a mutineer . 
Somehow he talked Spencer into letting him use another name " . 
There was a tap at the door and Oliver entered with the word that Heiser wished to see the Captain . 
" Have him come in " . 
Heiser , breathless and wild-eyed , brought the chilling news that the handspikes , heavers and holystones had been mysteriously removed from their customary places . 
" And also , sir , two articles which were considered souvenirs now must be regarded in another light entirely . 
An African knife and battle-ax are at this moment being sharpened by McKinley and Green . 
McKinley was overheard to say that he would like to get the knife into Spencer 's possession and that " -- " Where did you gather all this information , Heiser ? ? 
Who reported to you the disappearance of handspikes and heavers and who " -- He was interrupted by a crash from the deck and sprang toward the ladder , with Gansevoort and Heiser behind him . 
A glance revealed that the main topgallant mast had been carried away . 
The aimless milling about of what had been a well-trained , well-organized crew struck Alexander with horror . 
He bellowed orders and watched the alert response of some of his men and watched , too , the way a dozen or more turned their heads questioningly toward the shackled figure as though for further instruction . 
Adrien Deslonde hastened to Alexander 's side . 
" Small violently jerked the weather-royal brace with full intention to carry away the mast . 
I saw him myself and it was done after consultation with Cromwell . 
I swear it , sir " . 
And it was clear that Adrien was not mistaken , for both Small and Cromwell took no step toward aiding in the sending up of the new topgallant mast till Philip Spencer had given the signal to obey . 
Then , with disappointment evident upon their faces , they moved to the work . 
Alexander guessed that they had planned confusion and turmoil , thinking it the ideal climate in which to begin battle and bloodshed . 
Their strategy was sound enough and , he reasoned , had been defeated only by Philip Spencer 's unwillingness to sanction an idea he had not originated . 
When the mast was raised , Alexander gave the order for Small and Cromwell to be placed under arrest , and now three figures in irons sprawled upon the open deck and terror stalked the Somers . 
Spencer 's potential followers were openly sullen and morose , missing muster without excuse , expressing in ominous tones their displeasure at the prisoners being kept in irons , communicating with the three by glance and signal . 
One of the missing handspikes came out of its hiding place after Midshipman Tillotson had been insolently disobeyed by Seaman Wilson . 
Tillotson had reported the man to Gansevoort and an hour later , with back turned , had been attacked by Wilson , brandishing the weapon . 
Wilson , shackled and snarling , was thrown with the other prisoners and was soon joined by Green , McKee and McKinley . 
Not a man on the brig , loyal or villainous , could be unaffected by the sight of seven men involved in the crime of mutiny . 
In the tiny cabin , Alexander met with Gansevoort , Heiser and Wales to speak and to listen . 
Three days had passed since Spencer 's arrest and each day had brought new dangers , new fears . 
Gansevoort said , " It requires an omniscient eye to select those if any on whom we can now rely . 
To have the Greek paper is not the great help that at first flush it seemed . 
From actions aboard , it is easy to guess that Spencer 's boast of twenty staunch followers was a modest estimate " . 
" Well " , Heiser ventured , " why do n't we hold an investigation with questioning and " -- " That would be worse than useless " , Alexander broke in . 
" There is not space to hold or force to guard any increased number of prisoners . 
Besides , suppose we hold a court of inquiry , then what ? ? 
Then we have informed a large number of our crew that when they reach the United States , they will be punished but that in the meanwhile , they may run loose and are expected to perform their jobs in good order . 
Mr. Heiser , does this sound like a truly workable plan to you ? ? 
Do you not think these men might choose the black flag here and now " ? ? 
Wales said , " Of course they would . 
They are about to do so at any moment as it is . 
All that is needed is for one man to feel self-confident enough to take the lead . 
As soon as that one man is appointed by himself or the others or by a signal from Spencer , we are going to be rushed . 
We are going to be rushed and murdered " . 
" That is extravagant language , Mr. Wales . 
We are not going to be rushed and murdered " , Alexander said . 
" We are going to bring the Somers into New York harbor safe and sound " . 
" Of course , I agree with the Captain " , Gansevoort said thoughtfully , " but the conspiracy is ferocious and desperate . 
The instinct of discipline has been lost . 
Anything is possible when anarchy has the upper hand " . 
He paused , then added , " Everything on a ship is a weapon . 
Implements of wood and iron are available for close and hasty combat no matter where a man stands . 
And we are positive of so few and suspicious of so many " . 
" We ourselves must stand sentinel " . 
Alexander said . 
" Under arms day and night , watch and watch about . 
Those of us present , the Perry brothers , Deslonde and the other midshipmen now have the responsibility of the Somers . 
A great deal of labor we have as well , for we are too uncertain of where trust may be placed " . 
And when he was alone again in the cabin , Alexander lowered his head into his arms and wept , for he knew full well what must be done , what in the end would be done . 
With all his heart he had loved the Navy and now he must act in accordance with the Navy 's implacable laws . 
And when he did , when he gave to his ship that protection necessary to preserve her honor , he knew he would lose forever the Navy to which he had dedicated his soul . 
Where had he failed ? ? 
How had he failed ? ? 
He who had tried so hard , who had yearned so passionately to be a great officer . 
It came to him as he wept there aboard the Somers that it was as foolish to strive for greatness as to seek to storm the gates of heaven . 
It was given or it was not given . 
One did one 's best and if fortune smiled , there was a reward . 
One did one 's best and if fortune frowned , an eighteen-year-old boy with murder in his heart sailed aboard one 's ship . 
And Alexander sobbed like a girl for the dreams he had had , and he felt no shame . 
God knew his tears were his to shed if he so desired , for it had not been with an egotist 's rage for fame that he had held precious his naval career . 
Another field had given him fame enough to satisfy any egotist . 
It was for love that he had served the Navy . 
To have someday that love returned was what he had lived for . 
Now the hope was gone . 
Yes , he would bring the Somers safely into New York harbor but at a price . 
Dear God , at what a price . 
And after a while , he dried his tears and walked the deck as a captain should with assurance and dignity . 
Stern-faced , he inspected the prisoners , satisfying himself that they were clean , well fed and comfortable within reason . 
The prisoners averted their eyes but not before he had glimpsed hatred and anger . 
Only Cromwell , the giant boatswain , was mild-mannered and respectful . 
He said , " Captain , may I speak , please ? ? 
Captain , I am innocent of any plot against you or the ship " . 
" Are you , Cromwell " ? ? 
" Yes , sir . 
Before God I swear I am innocent . 
I know nothing of any plot , if there is such a thing " . 
" You are the only man aboard who can be in doubt " . 
" I can not speak for others , sir , but I am innocent " . 
He leaned closer to Alexander , squinting up at him from the deck . 
" Surely , Captain , you did not find my name on any suspicious paper or anything " . 
" No , Cromwell , I did not find your name . 
You were careful about that " . 
Now Spencer , seeming with effort to shake himself from lethargy , spoke . 
He said , " Cromwell is telling you the truth . 
He is innocent " . 
Alexander shifted his gaze to Spencer . 
The calmness and detachment of his tone suggested unawareness of how implicit was his own guilt in the words he had used to defend Cromwell . 
Alexander knew Spencer too well to think him naive or thick-skulled . 
And in a sudden wave of painful clarity , Alexander recognized a kinship with Spencer . 
Here was another human who understood the stupidity of quarreling with the inevitable . 
There was good fortune and there was bad and Philip Spencer , in handcuffs and ankle irons , knew it to be a truth . 
He expected nothing for himself but that which naturally follows those marked for misfortune . 
The red-haired captain , towering above the prisoner as a symbol of decency and authority , was shocked to find himself looking with sympathy upon Philip Spencer . 
This tragic lad had forged his own shackles . 
But he could not have done so , could not have found the way , had fortune favored him . 
And because fortune had favored neither the prisoner nor the red-haired captain , they would be each other 's undoing . 
" Spencer , if there is guilt , if you do not deny your own , how is it possible for Cromwell to be innocent ? ? 
He was your constant companion " . 
The hazel eyes met Alexander 's . 
" I tell you he is innocent " . 
" And do you think there is a reason why I should accept your word " ? ? 
" Yes . 
I have nothing to gain by defending Cromwell " . 
" Nothing to lose , either , Spencer " . 
" That 's true " , Spencer agreed and withdrew himself from the conversation . 
His eyes went back to contemplation of the sea . 
" I am innocent , Captain " , Cromwell said again . 
" Before God , Captain , I am innocent " . 
And though it was logical that a man who could plot mass murder would not hesitate to speak an untruth , still it was difficult to understand why Spencer spoke only for Cromwell . 
The boatswain was as guilty as any . 
No action of his could be interpreted in his favor and four midshipmen , prior to their knowing the significance of the Greek paper , had seen it in Cromwell 's hands while Spencer whispered explanations . 
" I thought " , Midshipman Rogers had told Alexander , " that Spencer was teaching him geometry " . 
It was fantastic to turn from the seven men in shackles to the wardroom , where a class of apprentices awaited him . 
This was a training ship and the training would continue , but there was an element of frightful absurdity here which Alexander recognized . 
Some of these apprentices were , in physical strength , already men and doubtless a percentage of them were Spencer 's followers . 
