She was moving through a screen of hemlocks , in among the white birch and maples . 
The sounds from the quarry began to pulse in her ears . 
She stood , once more listening . 
She had never been here at this hour . 
She felt as if some dark , totally unfamiliar shape would clutch at her arm ; ; but she found the path she always used , the stubs of branches she had broken , those she had pushed aside ; ; and she walked easily now , and more slowly , until she could see the dark glisten of water beneath her . 
If I ever committed suicide , she thought , I would dive straight down from here -- and no one would find me for days . 
She smiled , and expertly let herself downward , holding this known root or that , her sneakers sliding in the leaves . 
She jumped out onto the flat expanse of rock and , seating herself , shook her short-cut brown hair and tilted her chin far upward . 
The reedy music of the frogs had faded , but presently it began again , growing in volume until it was vibrant . 
Julia felt at peace and drew her legs up and clasped her hands tightly around the bent knees . 
She had accomplished a miracle . 
This was her place . 
The hour could n't change it . 
Only -- only -- her thoughts were a little strange . 
They were becoming confused . 
Perhaps it was because it was so late , and because she had no business to be here now . 
She was thinking of Paul a few weeks ago , in the Easter holidays , with her at one of those awful Friday Evening Dancing Class parties her mother had made her attend . 
" Hello , Julie , how are you " ? ? 
And then off he went so casually , to someone else with breasts better developed , more obvious in a lower-cut dress , someone without a mouthful of wire bands and an inability to find words that would hold him . 
I wish he was with me now , she thought , and that we were both the ages we are and doing what was once only pretense and acute embarrassment . 
Oh God ! ! 
I wish I were older or younger , Julia Bentley thought . 
I wish so much someone loved me . 
George Rawlings remembered seeing the door open sometime during the night -- Millie , in a white robe , standing like a ghost at the threshold . 
She had vanished ; ; he must have slept again . 
He was staring at the blue china lamp left on beside him . 
It seemed too much trouble even to reach for the switch ; ; but of course the impossible effort of leaving would have to be made on this Monday morning . 
This room was like a prison . 
He would not be indebted to Sam ! ! 
Below him , as if at the end of some remote tunnel , he heard the humming of a vacuum cleaner . 
His fingers fumbled across the bandages . 
They had left both of his eyes uncovered . 
Well , he told himself , let 's put the show on the road . 
He was walking across to the bathroom . 
He drank a glass of water and gripped the sink with both hands . 
A fearful pain had come from his head , as if the water were coursing up through the blood vessels and expanding them . 
He recognized his jacket and trousers . 
The fabric was dark ; ; the stains were n't too apparent ; ; and there were his shoes , thank God , but his shirt was one terrible mess . 
He shivered , and then tore away the blood-soaked parts and wound the rest around his neck like a scarf . 
Sam would be amazed to find him gone . 
Millie would have to understand . 
She must have put his clothes in the closet . 
He found a lump rising in his throat because of that one simple act of tidiness . 
He was on the verge of tears . 
Alex Poldowski -- in a fashion he owed a debt to that effete gentleman . 
At least Alex had told him he was n't dying . 
Perhaps George Rawlings would be better off dead . 
What time was it ? ? 
He peered at his wristwatch . 
Strange , it was still running . 
A quarter to seven . 
Too early for a vacuum cleaner , but probably Sam wanted the whole house in order before he came downstairs . 
He was kneeling to tie his shoelaces . 
His fingers felt absurdly thick and clumsy . 
He rose slowly and looked into the mirror on the inside of the closet door . 
He barely knew himself . 
This was some freak , two strands of adhesive tape across his nose , like ugly roots from the mass of gauze , suddenly moist over his cheekbones . 
The surface , however , was perfectly white . 
He was drinking another glass of water . 
It was after seven o'clock . 
He was supposed to be in court this afternoon , at City Hall . 
Who would take over ? ? 
He 'd have to think , but the main thing , the imperative necessity , was to leave before Sam Bentley was up and about , and before Millie detained him with sympathy . 
He entered the hallway . 
He was actually walking down the stairs . 
A plane up in the sky , above the clouds , and this freakish wreck of a man desperately trying to get away . 
" Father , is that you " ? ? 
The voice issued from the cavern of the hall below . 
George did not reply . 
" Is that you , Father ? ? 
Who 's there " ? ? 
For a moment he felt like a thief discovered . 
Then Julia appeared under the arch leading to the dining room . 
She stood gazing at him . 
" Uncle George " ! ! 
He was trying to smile at her . 
" Gosh ! ! 
You should n't be up , should you " ? ? 
" I -- I was just leaving here , Julie . 
I 'm all set . 
Just about to call a taxi " . 
She was wearing some sort of gray blazer . 
She seemed overly tall , her brow knitted in concern . 
" Well , at least you wo n't have to do that " , she was saying . 
" I 'm about to leave myself . 
I 'll drop you off " . 
" You 're leaving " ? ? 
" I 'm going back to school " , she answered . 
" Pietro 's driving me . 
I 'm just finishing breakfast . 
But have you told Mother you were going " ? ? 
She asked him . 
" No . 
I just do n't want anyone disturbed , Julie . 
That 's my wish . 
It 's quite a big one " , he added . 
Her face seemed to float in an implausibly bright shaft of sunlight . 
" Well , wo n't you come in then , have a cup of coffee -- or something ? ? 
Or maybe a drink " ? ? 
She asked , in a way that seemed oddly sophisticated , considerate , and yet perhaps partly scornful . 
He tried to see her face more clearly . 
" No -- nothing at all " , he said after a moment 's hesitation . 
" I 'll just wait for you here " . 
He leaned his head against the wood paneling behind him , but the vivid red images of pain inserted themselves against his eyelids . 
He raised them . 
Julia moved past . 
" I have to say good-bye upstairs . 
I wo n't be long " . 
" As a great favor , Julie " , he said , " please do n't mention you 've seen me " . 
" Not to anyone " ? ? 
" No -- please . 
" I 'll call your mother as soon as I get home . 
It 'll be so much easier " . 
" All right " She was staring at him . 
" I 'm fine , Julie . 
Please , you just go ahead " . 
She had disappeared . 
He could feel a pulse pounding against the bandages . 
He imagined Sam 's voice : " George , what the hell goes on " ? ? 
I would n't have the strength to answer , he thought . 
Maybe I could n't have called a taxi . 
He could hear the footsteps overhead . 
He saw the suitcase , which Julia was holding . 
He stood up . 
" I 'll take that , Julie -- for you " . 
" Oh no " , she said . 
" I can manage " . 
She went ahead of him . 
Outside the Lincoln was parked . 
He could hardly believe he was getting in . 
Pietro was gazing at him in an insolent , disdainful fashion ; ; but that did n't matter . 
We 'll drop Mr. Rawlings off in Ardmore " , Julia said , and for the merest second George was reminded of her father 's tone with servants . 
To the manner born -- odd to have such a thought at a time like this ; ; yet her inflection seemed forced or rehearsed . 
He could not stop to analyze . 
He had never felt particularly close to her . 
Carrie seemed more affectionate , but obviously Julia had respected his request . 
He took her hand . 
" I wish I did n't have to go back to school " , she said , and then , " I wish you lived in New York . 
That 's in the opposite direction " . 
" I wish I did " , he responded . 
" I wish I was n't wearing this ridiculous costume , and that we could go to a theater together , or a nice restaurant , forget we knew " He stopped speaking . 
" Forget we ever knew what " ? ? 
" Oh , just sort of everything in general " . 
She said nothing until Pietro had slackened their pace . 
" I know you feel badly , but that sounds like such a queer thing for you to say " . 
" Does it " ? ? 
He asked . 
" Yes , perhaps . 
I 'm supposed to joke about things , are n't I ? ? 
But sometimes life can be rather a disappointing business " . 
His voice seemed thick and purposeless . 
He relinquished her hand . 
He could see the stone building where he lived . 
Just a few more steps . 
Abruptly he reached into his pocket . 
Yes , there was the key . 
" Are you positive you 'll be all right by yourself " ? ? 
She asked him . 
For a moment he smiled . 
" Yes , Julie dear . 
You 've done me the greatest possible service . 
By myself I 'll be fine " . 
" Take care of yourself then " . 
" I will . 
You , also . 
Do n't work too hard " . 
It was an automatic phrase ; ; as he crossed through the courtyard he regretted it . 
He should have discovered a more tender farewell . 
Someone shouted at him , " Well ! ! 
Will you look at George Rawlings ! ! 
What happened to you " ? ? 
" I bumped into a door handle " , George said . 
Someone laughed . 
George walked steadily ahead into his entry . 
His bandages seemed on fire . 
He had shut his door with the brass number screwed to it . 
In the kitchenette the raw whiskey made him gasp . 
Just one or two swallows , he told himself , enough to lessen some of the pain . 
He was telephoning . 
" No , Millie , I 'm home . 
No , really , right as rain . 
Tell Sam not to worry about the car . 
I 'll get it hauled away . 
No , please -- no visit today -- I 'll be asleep . 
For God 's sake , do n't worry . 
That upsets me more than anything . 
Yes , sure , I 'll see the doctor -- this evening , if you insist . 
" There was one more call to make . 
" Joan , did I wake you " ? ? 
He asked . 
" Yes , I thought you 'd probably be up . 
Look , sweetheart , some fool was . 
Happened to be driving somewhat intoxicated last night . 
Unfortunately it turned out to be me , but I would n't quite put it that way to the boss . 
Oh hell no , I 'm not in a hospital . 
I wo n't be in town for a couple of days , though , and there 's that case I was supposed to handle this afternoon . 
Too bad a jury is n't involved . 
I might struggle in for a jury . 
I 'd win hands down . 
But I thought maybe Tony Elliott could pinch-hit for me . 
He 'll understand -- you might give him sort of a tactful nudge . 
He 's got all the facts . 
I would n't want to ask for a postponement -- it 's really just a routine thing . 
What ? ? 
No , darling I 'd rather you did n't come out " . 
A smile pulled at the lower strip of adhesive tape . 
" Do n't even send flowers . 
I 'll see you Wednesday . 
I 'll bribe you with a nice " -- He was about to say " double martini " but thought better of it . 
" I 'll take you out to dinner . 
Okay ? ? 
" He had put down the receiver . 
A strange relationship between Joan Fulbright and himself . 
Who knew about it ? ? 
She lived alone in the older part of the city , in one of those renovated houses whose brick facade some early settler had constructed . 
She had two tiny rooms on the second floor . 
She was a clever girl , a most efficient secretary . 
She let him come and go as he pleased , or as it pleased her . 
In the office you might have thought them only casual friends ; ; yet if he said : Make an excuse yourself , come out here today , she would have been on the next train -- and , similarly , if she had been in need , he would have gone to her . 
