Such a little thing to start with -- the car registration . 
" Ida , where is the car license " ? ? 
She asked . 
" I ca n't find it in the glove compartment " . 
" Via must have it " , I answered readily enough , recalling her last visit . 
" Via " , she was frowning . 
" Why should Via have it " ? ? 
Had she forgotten she had signed the car away , that whatever they mutually owned had been divided among the children ? ? 
I was silent . 
I did n't want to stir things up . 
" I drive my own car by courtesy of Via " ? ? 
" I 'm sure she 'd turn it over to you , if you 'd rather . 
You know that " . 
She looked as if she were accusing me of some fraud . 
" She must have taken the registration when she went to Walter 's . 
I 'll call her " . 
" No , thank you . 
I want nothing of Via 's " . 
Why should this suddenly assail her ? ? 
Walter was giving me checks for my pay , the household bills . 
Had she been in such a turmoil that this had slipped her mind ? ? 
" What a fool I 've been " , she said quietly . 
" I knew all this , but I paid no attention . 
I do n't even own the house I 'm standing in . 
I was so sure it was all temporary that we would all embrace , and then the lawyer would tear up all those things " It narrows down down down and finally there is no way out . 
If I am not to be Mrs. Salter I am nothing " . 
I suppose I should have paid attention to that half-murmured remark , but it seemed one of those extreme statements women under stress indulge in . 
I love you , I hate you , I feel like killing you and myself , and in the same sequence I love you I think you 're the most wonderful the most noble and so on and on , meanwhile eating a good breakfast and dinner and enjoying living . 
So I went about my business . 
I made a lemon sponge , a light dessert , roasted a chicken , parboiled some frozen vegetables , so there would be something nice in the icebox for the weekend . 
" Do n't bother , Ida " , she said . 
" I have these appointments in town for Saturday , and I 'll probably spend Sunday with Dolly or the Thaxters " . 
At last , I thought , she 's recovering her spirits . 
With this movie-to-be in London , and new faces about her there , she would soon be a more tranquil , a wiser person , all the better for her stay out here . 
I felt more cheerful , as if I had had a part in bringing her through to a greater tolerance of herself . 
And I went back to my own cottage to live my own little patch of life . 
It was foggy that evening , but the path to my house was so well grooved that I could feel my way , accustomed as I was to the dense mists that rise from the sun-warmed palisades of the river and sometimes last for days . 
In the morning the fog was still thick so that to go to the village I crept along with my headlights full on . 
I did notice a twinkle of light from the big house through the woods but as I had left a light on in my own house because of the fog I assumed Mrs. Salter had done the same before she left for town . 
I did my shopping , had my dentist appointment , and from there I went to the women 's lunch at our parish church where we discussed plans for the annual Christmas bazaar , so that dusk was beginning to gather when I drove home in the late afternoon . 
But the next day -- Sunday . 
Why , when I drove down to church , did n't it speak to me , seeing the lights still on and the day crisp and clear ? ? 
Prisoners brought to the dock accused of murder or accident say they can not remember , and reading the accounts of their testimony you can not believe that the mind can remove , absent itself , unsee . 
When I came back from church at noon Mrs. Thaxter was turning into the Salter driveway . 
Even at a car 's length I could sense that something was wrong , and so I followed her up to the turnaround in front of the house . 
Dolly Engisch was waiting there on the steps and she came running toward us . 
" She 's nowhere , nowhere " ! ! 
She screamed , and both women ran up to the house , and I followed . 
The search began , in all the rooms , running upstairs , down , opening closets , talking , exclaiming in rushes and gasps . 
Everything was as I had left it the night before last -- her portfolio and bag for town , her lingerie and dress and shoes laid out only her mink coat was missing . 
And she . 
Then the telephoning began . 
I , who until that day before had been Mrs. Salter 's friend , her equal , was the servant now . 
It was Dolly and Mrs. Thaxter who were calling Via , everybody . 
And when they spoke they spoke to each other and not to me . 
And after I brought them sandwiches and coffee I had to go back to my place in the kitchen and wait . 
Sitting in the kitchen I recalled every word Mrs. Salter said that could have been a sign to me . 
" If I am not to be Mrs. Salter then I am nothing " . 
Why did n't that alarm me then ? ? 
And when she returned from taking her guests back to New York she had said , " All they talked about was Harvie Harvie this , Harvie that When they know the truth will they drop away from me , will I become a nothing " ? ? 
And then I remembered a few years before after their return from a short trip to Rome I had heard her boast , over and over again , " On the boat people liked me for myself " . 
I had made a habit of calling her at night from my cottage , just to check . 
The last night I had called , but the line was always busy and it reassured me . 
I assumed it was one of those hour-long conversations with Dolly or Constance , she comfortable in bed . 
But it seemed not from what they were saying . 
Then was it a final desperate plea from her , to whom ? ? 
Hanging on and on past any man 's patience some final stab of conclusion ? ? 
She was found the day after at the bottom of the cliff . 
I tried to believe that what must have happened was that , restless , disturbed by this telephone call or whatever , she walked out in the night , as she had a habit of doing . 
Sometimes she took the path that winds up around my cottage to the walk at the edge of the cliff . 
It 's so romantic up there , she used to say , with the broad river gleaming in its moontrack like an enormous dark mirror and all the sounds of the night , so poetic . 
With all that warm rain and the fog it might have been as simple as a loosened rock , a misstep . 
But I did n't really think it was as simple as that , nor did anyone else . 
When a fisherman brought her up in his arms , still , small , as if she were a child asleep , I began to shudder with a terrible excitement , almost triumphant , that I still can not account for . 
Was it a hysterical release from the long strain of vigilance of those weeks ? ? 
That at last the vigilance , the will gives way ? ? 
Or what was it that , before Via , Sonny , Walter and all , I began almost to dance with shuddering and cry out , " I knew she 'd do it ! ! 
I knew " ! ! 
Everyone stared at me and drew back . 
Their eyes turned cold and accusing , even Via 's . 
And they have never changed . 
At the same time that I thought I understood her at long last and pitied her , underneath this knowing had there burned unquenched by my pity a fire of hate , an enduring envy that burst out in that ghastly outcry ? ? 
Was that what had given way in me ? ? 
Even now I am appalled at how little anyone knows of what they really are . 
It is absurd of course to say that that one exclamation estranged me from the family I considered my very own , but there it hangs , a cooling void that broke our close connection with each other . 
At the time I was filled with self-pity at this separation , but in the years since I have come to understand that the sight of me was painful to them after that outcry . 
In my person they would always remember that last long time of me alone with her , so if they told themselves that I could have prevented it , I can understand that by now and love them still , because everyone must justify , have a scapegoat for what is not to be borne . 
It is not their avoidance that rankles ; ; it is when I meet someone who was a close friend of the family , and therefore of mine , and they nod to me so coolly and walk away , that it hurts . 
I could tell them , but no one ever asked , why I had cried out so triumphantly at the sight of her body . 
No , I forget Mrs. Mathias , who had been away visiting a married daughter when it happened . 
She haunted me ; ; she persisted in explaining how and why she had advised Mrs. Salter to return to the country . 
" We all feel guilty " , I turned away from her coldly . 
" It was nobody 's fault . 
She overplayed her hand " . 
" What do you mean " ? ? 
She frowned . 
" Why put such a high value on being top dog " ? ? 
I added . 
It was coarse , almost insulting , this harsh appraisal , and she has never come to see me since . 
But suppose she had not taken Mrs. Mathias ' advice and lived on like thousands of women in towns , dispossessed of love , hanging on to makeshifts , and altogether and finally arid . 
If she chose , and in that final decision discarded , what , above all , all of us value , life itself , must she not have risen to her fullest height , and transcending her murky self , felt at last the passion of a great moral decision ? ? 
If they say I could have stopped her it is because they are ignorant of her last weeks of self-examination , her search into herself and its conclusions . 
Yes , I had cried out that I knew she 'd do it , but without my fully realizing it at the time , it was a cry of triumph for her , praise at her deliverance from pettiness and greed -- and guilt . 
She was finally at rest in truth , of her own proud free choice . 
At rest with my darling Ellen , the first Mrs. Salter . 
Mr. Salter came home . 
The funeral service was in the house , the Methodist minister , how clean and glistening his eyeglasses and his neat body standing beside that coffin with that doll inside , a stranger speaking to strangers the old sacred words , and the rain drumming incessantly in accompaniment , seven days of relentless rain that turned the ground to mud so the burial had to be postponed . 
I waited . 
Then Via called to say they had decided to cremate her -- as they had Ellen , the thought leaped to my mind -- and did I want to meet her at the funeral home the next morning . 
The coffin stood on trestles in a corner of the long low dimly lit funeral parlor , on its dark shining surface the sheaf of white roses I had ordered . 
I knelt , just for decency I thought at the time , but found myself whispering , " Our Father which Art in Heaven " And it was only after that that something unlocked in me and I felt a grief . 
Via was in the parking lot when I went outside . 
Together we waited in her car until the hearse moved out and we followed it down into the heavy traffic of New Jersey . 
By the time we arrived and entered the building sacred music was already swelling out into the chapel-like auditorium with its discreet symbols of religious faiths . 
Again I felt impelled to kneel , and reached back and pulled Via down . 
Something would come into her heart if nothing else the sounds of Bach would give her some healing . 
