Under normal circumstances , he had a certain bright-eyed all-American-boy charm , with great appeal for young ladies , old ladies , and dogs . 
Today , he looked like an Astronaut who had left his vitamin pills on the bureau and spent six months in space : hollow eyes , hollow cheeks , hollow stomach . 
Breakfast , he thought . 
A shot of orange juice would make everything seem better . 
He looked around his little Eden : bureau , bed , table , chair , two-burner stove . 
Then he remembered . 
" You share a refrigerator " , Mrs. Kirby had said , and somehow , at midnight , after the long drive from New York in pelting rain , that had sounded reasonable . 
In the cold light of day , it seemed a lunatic arrangement . 
Share bath , maybe -- but share refrigerator ? ? 
She had explained it -- something about summer people 's eating out and not enough space in the units . 
And where was the thing ? ? 
He remembered seeing it last night , when he put away his small store of bachelor-type eatables . 
Ah , yes -- his half of a refrigerator stood outside , on the " curving veranda " between Unit Number Three and Unit Number Four . 
It was still raining , and Mrs. Kirby 's cottages bloomed through the gray haze like the names they bore , vivid blue and green and magenta . 
Charlie downed his orange juice and one of the long , skinny green pills , his spirits as damp as the day . 
This vacation had seemed like a good idea last week , when his doctor had prescribed it . 
" Take a full month " , the doctor had said . 
" Lots of sun , lots of rest . 
The red pills are a vitamin-and-iron compound . 
This is a sleeping capsule . 
The others will make you a little more comfortable until you get it licked . 
You young men get to be my age , you wo n't take flu so lightly " . 
Charlie had accepted the diagnosis without comment . 
The doctor could call it anything from flu to beriberi ; ; but Charlie knew what was wrong with him and knew , too , that there was no pill to cure it . 
He had loved and lost Vivian Wayne to somebody else , had watched her marry the somebody else , and had caught a bear of a cold by kissing the bride good-by forever , which was really piling it on . 
He had caught , too , like an ailment , a confirmed distrust of women . 
Once burned -- scalded , really , because Vivian had given him every encouragement -- forever shy . 
From now on , his was going to be a man 's world : the North Woods , duck blinds at dawning , beer and poker and male secretaries . 
Meanwhile , he had this miserable cold , and as he leaned against the refrigerator , watching the rain make sandy puddles at his feet , the doctor 's prescription for lots of sun seemed like a hollow mockery . 
In these damp circumstances , he was an odds-on bet to develop pneumonia . 
He looked up to see Mrs. Kirby , awesome in a black-and-yellow polka-dotted slicker , bearing down on him . 
" Three-day blow " ! ! 
She bellowed triumphantly . 
He had noticed before that the natives seemed to regard really filthy weather as a kind of Pyhrric victory over the tourists . 
" Fine , day after tomorrow " , she added . 
" I hope so " , he said . 
" I 've got this cold . 
Thought I 'd bake it out in the sun " . 
" Ah " . 
She studied him briefly . 
" You 've got a peaked look . 
Better get in out of the wet " . 
Charlie forbore to mention that the wet was somewhat universal , Peony being less than weatherproof . 
As for its being fine , day after tomorrow , he had the unhappy conviction that it would never be fine again , with Vivian lost to him forever . 
He could imagine her at this minute , honeymooning in Nassau with what's-his-name , lounging on golden sands , looking forward to a life of unalloyed bliss . 
All Charlie could look forward to was a yellow pill at noon , a salami sandwich for lunch , and a lonely old age -- if he lived that long . 
He leafed through the light reading provided by Mrs. Kirby for her guests : four separate adventures of the Bobbsey Twins ( At the Seashore , At the Mountains , On the Farm , and In Danger ) and several agricultural bulletins on the treatment of hoof-and-mouth disease in cattle , hideously illustrated . 
He dozed , only to dream of Vivian , and woke , only to crash into the night table , bruising his other shin . 
He took a yellow pill , only to choke on it , and went for the salami , only to find something alive in the refrigerator -- something pink and fuzzy . 
His first thought was that Mrs. Kirby , in her mania for color , had dyed a cat and that cat had somehow managed to open the refrigerator door and climb in ; ; but on further investigation , the thing proved to be a sweater , of the long-hair variety that sheds onto men 's jackets -- pale , pale pink and , according to the label , size thirty-four . 
He thought about it for a minute , could find no reasonable explanation for the presence of a sweater in the refrigerator , got the salami , bread , and a Bermuda onion , and put the whole thing out of his mind . 
Next morning , he found a note in the refrigerator . 
" Would you mind wrapping your onion " ? ? 
Said this note . 
" The smell permeates everything " ! ! 
Everything being the sweater , a lipstick case , and a squirt bottle of Kissin ' Kare pink hand lotion . 
The note paper was pink , too , and the handwriting small and dainty and utterly feminine . 
Not that he had supposed , considering the evidence , that he was sharing this refrigerator with a member of the Beach Patrol . 
He scrawled " Sorry " across the bottom of the note and then , against his better judgment , added : " Do n't you eat " ? ? 
He did n't want to encourage anything here ; ; but on the other hand , he did n't want her swiping his salami . 
" Not onions " , came the answer the following day . 
" Ugh " . 
Must have really smelled up her sweater , he thought , and wondered idly just why she kept the sweater fast-frozen . 
But then , as he well knew , women are not guided by logic or common sense . 
Take Vivian . 
Yes , take Vivian . 
Somebody had . 
Now , if this were Vivian next door to him and if , for some obscure female reason , she kept her clothes in the refrigerator , they would not be pink . 
They would be black or white or horse-blanket plaid , chic and splashy , like Vivian herself . 
Pink , Vivian once had told him , was for baby girls , and grown-up girls who wore pink were subconsciously clinging to their infancy . 
" Why does this girl keep a sweater in the refrigerator " ? ? 
He mused aloud . 
Eh " ? ? 
It was Mrs. Kirby , making her toilsome way along the veranda , laden with a clattery collection of mops , brushes , and pails . 
" What 's that you say " ? ? 
" Oh , nothing . 
Just glad the rain 's stopped " . 
" Oh , yes . 
Just look at that sky . 
Be a scorcher by afternoon " . 
" I hope so . 
I 've got this cold " . 
" So you said " . 
She scrutinized him . 
" My , you 're peaked . 
You want to watch out that you do n't get burned to an ash , first sunny day . 
I must remember to warn the girl next to you in Larkspur . 
That pale kind 's the worst " . 
That pale kind , Charlie thought . 
Hardly an inviting description . 
But then , neither was peaked . 
He could hear Mrs. Kirby now , warning her pale guest against sunburn . 
" I spoke to the fellow next door , too " , she might say . 
" He 's that peaked kind " . 
Surely there was a better word . 
Charlie looked in the mirror . 
Run-down , iron-poor . 
He looked more closely . 
Frail , feeble -- peaked . 
Clearly , two damp days with the Bobbsey Twins had done him no good . 
The sun , blazing hot as prophesied , was far from kind to Mrs. Kirby 's varicolored properties . 
When Charlie came up from the beach for his four-o'clock pill , the whole establishment ( gaudy enough when seen through mist and fog ) looked like a floodlit modern painting -- great blocks of dizzy color , punctuated at regular intervals by the glaring white of five community refrigerators . 
This weekend , he thought , he would look around for some more subdued retreat , with Cape roses , maybe , at the door . 
He could not imagine a flower 's being brave enough to grow beside Peony , Larkspur , and the rest . 
The sweater was gone from the refrigerator , and in its place was a large plastic bag , full of wet pink clothes . 
No wonder she was so pale , wearing all those cold clothes . 
He got a red pill and a beer and then , on impulse , transferred the rest of his salami to her side of the refrigerator and scrawled " Be my guest " on the wrapping . 
It gave him a good feeling . 
" M-m-m . 
Thanks " , was her answer the next day . 
The note was propped against his pill bottles and bore a postscript : " You 're not at all well , are you " ? ? 
" I 've got this cold " , he wrote . 
Not that it was any of her business . 
" It 's none of my business " , said the next note , " but my Aunt Elsie used to take lemon juice and honey in hot water for a cold , and she lived to be ninety-six . 
I mean , she 's still living , and she 's ninety-six . 
Why do n't you try that " ? ? 
" I do n't have a lemon " . 
He had to write very small to get it on the bottom of the scrap of paper . 
By the next morning , she had turned the paper over . 
" Gee , neither do I " . Charlie grinned . 
She did n't sound like a pale girl . 
She sounded a little like a redhead . 
But then , redheads are often pale . 
He stuck his head in Mrs. Kirby 's little rental office . 
" I guess that redhead next to me took your advice . 
I have n't seen her on the beach " . 
" You wo n't , if you 're looking for a redhead . 
She 's got browny hair " . 
He spent that afternoon on the beach , looking for a pale , browny-haired girl in a pink bathing suit . 
There were pink bathing suits on blondes , and browny-haired girls in red or black or green bathing suits . 
There were a sprinkling of daring bikinis and a preponderance of glorified tank suits . 
Up on a dune , he saw a girl , all by herself , sitting on a camp stool before an easel and absorbed in her painting . 
He paid little attention to her because she was a redhead and because she was wearing white -- one of those bulky , turtle-neck sweaters . 
On the beach , there were pale girls and not-so-pale girls . 
And he saw them all as he walked up and down . 
At two that morning , he was still walking -- up and down Peony , up and down the veranda , up and down the silent , moonlit beach . 
Finally , in desperation , he opened the refrigerator , filched her hand lotion , and left a note . 
" I 've got this sunburn " , said the note , " and I used some of your hand lotion . 
Hope you do n't mind " . 
" Of course I do n't mind " , she answered . 
" You 're having a miserable time , are n't you ? ? 
Use all the lotion you want , and for goodness ' sake , stay in out of the sun for a couple of days " . 
This was a very warm , sympathetic girl , he decided . 
Sympathy is a fine quality in a woman . 
Now Vivian , for instance , was not too long on sympathy . 
She felt , and said , that sympathy only made people feel sorry for themselves ; ; it was a tough world , and you had to be tough to hold your own . 
He did n't know what was so tough about Vivian 's world , slopping around Nassau with what's-his-name . 
Suppose what's-his-name got a sunburn ? ? 
Charlie could n't see Vivian offering any hand lotion . 
She might peel him , once the worst of the agony was over . 
Charlie spent the next two days in his pajama bottoms , waiting for the fire in his back to subside , and used generous quantities of the hand lotion . 
Correspondence passed back and forth . 
" How 's your sunburn now ? ? 
The only thing , this lotion has glycerin in it , and that whitens the skin , so if you 're so anxious to get a tan , you may not want to use it " . 
" I 'm not that anxious , but maybe that 's why you 're so fair " . 
" That Mrs. Kirby ! ! 
I 'll bet she told you I was puny , too . 
How 's your cold " ? ? 
" Broiled out . 
She did n't say you were puny . 
Are you ? ? 
What 's puny " ? ? 
" Puny goes with pale and peaked . 
Do you have anything to read while you 're shut up ? ? 
There are two things here about Surviving in the Wilderness , and a book called ' Tom Swift and His Speedy Canoe ' ; ; but the picture of Tom Swift is pretty sinister . 
Also the canoe " . 
