How , he wondered , does one enjoy one 's spare time ? ? 
He considered some interesting excursion but he was on the road every day from dawn to dusk . 
Then there was exercise , boating and hiking , which was not only good for you but also made you more virile : the thought of strenuous activity left him exhausted . 
Perhaps golf , with a fashionable companion -- but he 'd lost his clubs , had n't played in years . 
There was swimming over at the Riverside Hotel , but his skin was so white he looked like the bottom of a frog . 
Perhaps a packing trip into the Sierras , let his beard grow -- but that was too stark . 
I could , he thought , take a long walk -- but where ? ? 
The telephone rang . 
" You missed it " , Buzz 's voice said , " You should have gone over to the Pagan Room with us . 
Wow . 
Strippers , but scrumptious , and Toodle Williams and her all-lesbian band " . 
" Hi , Buzz " , Owen said . 
" I went over to the Willows and dropped two notes " . 
" Tough " , Buzz said , " Listen , we 're having a stag dinner over at the Pagan Room on Friday . 
Imagine a stag dinner with Toodle Williams " . 
He laughed and laughed . 
Owen wanted to be pleasant because Buzz worked the territory next to his , but he had n't come to Reno for stag dinners . 
" Thanks " , Owen said , " but Friday is a long way off and anything can happen " . 
Buzz was a tireless instigator who never let his victims rest . 
When Owen was finally rid of him , there was a timid rap at the door . 
" Yes " , Owen called out . 
" Yes " ? ? 
" I 'm Mrs. Gertrude Parker " , a soft voice explained , " And I 'd like to talk to you for a few minutes , please " . 
Ahah , he thought , a lush divorcee at last . 
Probably saw me in the lobby . 
He was disappointed to find a nervous , scrawny woman with a big hat standing at the door . 
She frowned at his green pajamas with the yellow moons . 
" How do you do " ? ? 
She said , semi-professionally . 
" Our church is sponsoring a group of very courageous women up in Alaska . 
We call them lay-sisters and they go among the Eskimos making friends and bringing the light . 
They 're up there in that freezing climate and all of us have to try and help them " . 
" Oh " ? ? 
" You see " , she said , looking past him into the room , where the highball glasses sparkled dully in the bright light , " you and I ca n't understand the many hardships they have to undergo " . 
" Why is that " ? ? 
She apparently was n't satisfied with his reaction . 
Smug , Owen thought , smug and sappy . 
There was a slight nervous twitch in the region of her left eye . 
It gave her a lewd , winking effect . 
" Have you ever tried to reason with an Eskimo " ? ? 
She asked , winking wildly . 
" They are a very difficult group of people " . 
" I do n't know much about them " , Owen admitted , " but I suppose they have their own religion and they probably resent outsiders coming in and telling them what to do and what not to do " . 
She smiled in a sickly-tolerant fashion . 
" You know , that 's very interesting . 
People do n't know how much they give away about themselves by remarks like that . 
The more canvassing I do , the more I note how far most people are from their personal God " . 
Forebearing , Owen kept his peace . 
What would happen next ? ? 
That she was out for a touch was certain , but when did she get to the pitch ? ? 
Several people passed in the hall and stared as he slowly retreated , trying to close the door a little , and she slowly leaned toward him and raised her voice . 
" How did you get by the desk " ? ? 
He asked curiously . 
" I 'm sure the hotel does n't know you 're wandering around the corridors , knocking on strangers ' doors and talking down Eskimos " . 
" Oh , I just come once a week . 
Every day I visit a different hotel . 
I feel it 's my duty . 
I do this work all on my own , because I understand the difficulties and I want to help these lay-sisters . 
Do you know these women go all through Alaska , and they do n't have the proper facilities ? ? 
They travel in pairs as much as a hundred-and-fifty miles a day " . 
" Do you have any idea how far I travel every day ? ? 
I have the whole Pacific Northwest " . 
Owen was aware he was getting overexcited but he could n't help himself . 
Mrs. Gertrude Parker drew back . 
" That 's hardly a Christian approach " , she remonstrated . 
" You 're in the secular world " . 
" I did n't say it was Christian . 
I do n't think you 'll find many active Christian salesmen . 
Not that religion is n't big business ; ; those bibles and prayer books make a lot of money for publishing houses , but they do n't get top personnel . 
Our key salesmen are in appliances and cosmetics " . 
" God , I take it , plays no part in this " , she said waspishly . 
" God does n't have any appliance or cosmetics " , he said heatedly before he caught himself . 
It sounded silly ; ; why go on ? ? 
More people were passing ; ; he had to find some way to close this impossible conversation . 
" And whiskey " , she said , smiling and blinking at the highball glasses . 
" Do n't forget whiskey ; ; it 's such a big seller " . 
" You know " , he said , getting a grip on himself , " I think you 're going to have to excuse me . 
I have an appointment " . 
" I can imagine " , she said . 
" Probably down at the bar . 
But what do you want to do about the lay-sisters ? ? 
They must be freezing up there now . 
Ca n't you help them " ? ? 
" Leave a card or something . 
I 'll think it over " . 
" I have no card " , she said bitterly . 
" You have n't been listening to what I 've been telling you . 
I only hope my talking to you has helped you a little , anyway , because you need spiritual bucking-up " . 
She looked crestfallen , as if he had somehow disappointed the whole human race . 
She stood indecisively for a moment , then walked down the hall ; ; he heard her knocking on another door . 
It took him about fifteen minutes to calm himself ; ; then he realized he was hungry . 
He showered , shaved , dressed and went down to the dining room for breakfast . 
On the way he stopped at the desk to receive his mail . 
There was a check from his company , and the usual enthusiastic bulletins on new lines they always issued . 
His lawyer had sent him a statement on his overdue alimony , and there was a letter from the Collector of Internal Revenue asking him to stop in his office and explain last year 's exemptions . 
He ate breakfast in a sullen mood , but afterwards , when he walked out onto Virginia Street , he felt braced . 
He looked off to the crest of the Sierras , still white-topped ; ; the glisten of the Truckee River made a wide spangle . 
He felt suddenly elated , adventurous . 
With any luck at all he could easily find a flowerpot . 
Although it was only three o'clock , he stopped in at the Golden Calf . 
The tables were all spinning , the dice rattling , the bar crowded . 
Just to test himself , he played roulette for quarters on his old combination , five and seventeen , and within an hour , he had won , surprisingly , twenty dollars . 
The way was opening up ; ; when the management brought around champagne , the breakfast settled its whirling around in his stomach . 
The Golden Calf was dimly lit with shaded neon . 
There were more women than men in the place , but he could n't find a flowerpot . 
They all had the hard look of gamblers who had stopped dreaming , who automatically turned the cards , hardly caring what showed up . 
The mural around the wall depicted early settlers in covered wagons , who appeared much more animated than the gamblers . 
The women had a bright shining expectancy as they leaned out from the wall and gazed splendidly into the distance , while the men were stern but hopeful . 
All , of course , except the Donner party who were bent on starving to death . 
" I wonder if they did eat each other at the end " , Owen mused . 
He sat down next to a heavily-upholstered blonde , but she was cleaned out in twenty minutes . 
She sighed a dirty word and left . 
Owen was surprised to see Mrs. Gertrude Parker playing the one-arm bandits that were cunningly arranged by the entrance . 
She sat down and played two slots at once , looking grim , as if bested by mechanical devices , and Owen felt sorry for the lay-sisters depending on her support . 
A dried-up cowboy sat down next to him in the blonde 's place . 
He was a little more authentic than usual because he smelled slightly of the stables . 
" What you need is a steady martingale " , the cowboy announced after watching Owen play . 
" You ca n't build on your hit-and-miss five-seventeen " . 
" What are you playing " ? ? 
Owen asked . 
" I 'm just logging " , the cowboy explained . 
" I keep all these plays in this little black book , and I watch over a twelve-hour period to find out what numbers are repeating . 
But roulette 's not my game . 
I 'm always trying to find a breaking table in blackjack . 
Incidentally , I 'm pretty famous in these parts : I 'm called The Wrangler " . 
" Nice to know you . 
Do n't you have to spend any time on your ranch " ? ? 
" Well , of course I do . 
I 'm with the Bar-H , pushing a horse called Sparky . 
He 's my own horse , and what I collect from him I use on blackjack . 
This Sparky can rack and single-foot and he 's the fastest thing in Washoe County . 
I figure if I can get any kind of publicity campaign going , I 'll land him on TV -- you know , one of those favorite horses for some Western hero . 
I once trained a horse for Hoot Gibson , but nothing like Sparky . 
He 's a pinto and he photographs wonderfully " . 
Five came up while Owen was listening to The Wrangler and he neglected to play , a loss of ten dollars . 
This proved conclusively that The Wrangler was a jinx , so he walked on down to Hurrays , an even more glorified gambling den than the Golden Calf . 
When he looked in the back , Mrs. Gertrude Parker was marking keno cards . 
His adventurous spirit had waned ; ; he studied the pistol exhibition that Hurrays featured as an added attraction . 
He ogled a long redhead with green eyes , but she was a shill with her money in front of her . 
He had no great prejudice against shills ; ; it just seemed such a dry run . 
There was no cash around ; ; everyone was flipping silver dollars . 
The management discreetly withdrew the green stuff into the office and gave the customers chips or checks or premium points . 
He read a special announcement whereby Hurrays would feature a special floorshow at three A.M. starring Adele ( The Body ) Brenner and fourteen glamorous schoolgirls . 
He wondered if he might bag a tourist , but they looked frightened of him . 
He passed two brides , both wearing orchids , and they made him feel a little sad . 
Owen found Buzz watching chuck-a-luck . 
Buzz had on a Hawaiian shirt and was carrying some sun-tan oil and dark glasses . 
He was shorter and fatter than Owen , who felt good standing next to him . 
" We 're all going over to Lake Tahoe and try our luck at Cal-Neva " , Buzz explained , still instigating . 
" We ran into a guy at the Pagan Room who guarantees we can beat the wheel . 
He started out as a stickman , then became a pit boss until the Club found him crossroading . 
He was knocking down checks at faro " . 
" I 'm allergic to Tahoe " , Owen explained . 
" Something about the pollen " . 
" Well , okay " , Buzz said . 
" We 'll see you around later " . 
Owen went over to the crap table and the dice were hot , but he could n't pyramid with any consecutive success . 
" How 's your luck , honey " ? ? 
A short platinum blonde in a bursting sun-suit addressed him . 
She looked well-fed and prosperous , but he did n't get the impression he was being propositioned the way he 'd been hoping . 
" I have n't had any luck since I was a baby " . 
" Stake me " , she said , " and let me at those dice . 
I 'll make them dance the tango . 
We 'll get it in a hurry and get it out " . 
" Let 's have a drink and discuss a merger " . 
" If you go broke " , she said , smiling up at him , " I 'll leave you " . 
" Sounds like real love " , Owen said . 
" It sort of brings a lump to my throat " . 
" My name 's Gisele " , the blonde said after she ordered a Scotch . 
" Named after the ballet . 
My mother wanted to call me Sylphide , but it sounded too affected " . 
