I was thinking of the heat and of water that morning when I was plowing the stubble field far across the hill from the farm buildings . 
It had grown hot early that day , and I hoped that the boy , my brother 's son , would soon come across the broad black area of plowed ground , carrying the jar of cool water . 
The boy usually was sent out at about that time with the water , and he always dragged an old snow-fence lath or a stick along , to play with . 
He pretended that the lath was a tractor and he would drag it through the dirt and make buzzing , tractor sounds with his lips . 
I almost ran over the snake before I could stop the tractor in time . 
I had turned at the corner of the field and I had to look back to raise the plow and then to drop it again into the earth , and I was thinking of the boy and the water anyway , and when I looked again down the furrow , the snake was there . 
It lay half in the furrow and half out , and the front wheels had rolled nearly up to it when I put in the clutch . 
The tractor was heavily loaded with the weight of the plow turning the earth , and the tractor stopped instantly . 
The snake slid slowly and with great care from the new ridge the plow had made , into the furrow and did not go any further . 
I had never liked snakes much , I still had that kind of quick panic that I 'd had as a child whenever I saw one , but this snake was clean and bright and very beautiful . 
He was multi-colored and graceful and he lay in the furrow and moved his arched and tapered head only so slightly . 
Go out of the furrow , snake , I said , but it did not move at all . 
I pulled the throttle of the tractor in and out , hoping to frighten him with the noise , but the snake only flicked its black , forked tongue and faced the huge tractor wheel , without fright or concern . 
I let the engine idle then , and I got down and went around the wheel and stood beside it . 
My movement did frighten the snake and it raised its head and trailed delicately a couple of feet and stopped again , and its tongue was working very rapidly . 
I followed it , looking at the brilliant colors on its tubular back , the colors clear and sharp and perfect , in orange and green and brown diamonds the size of a baby 's fist down its back , and the diamonds were set one within the other and interlaced with glistening jet-black . 
The colors were astonishing , clear and bright , and it was as if the body held a fire of its own , and the colors came through that transparent flesh and skin , vivid and alive and warm . 
The eyes were clear and black and the slender body was arched slightly . 
His flat and gracefully tapered head lifted as I looked at him and the black tongue slipped in and out of that solemn mouth . 
You beauty , I said , I could n't kill you . 
You are much too beautiful . 
I had killed snakes before , when I was younger , but there had been no animal like this one , and I knew it was unthinkable that an animal such as that should die . 
I picked him up , and the length of him arched very carefully and gracefully and only a little wildly , and I could feel the coolness of that radiant , fire-colored body , like splendid ice , and I knew that he had eaten only recently because there were two whole and solid little lumps in the forepart of him , like fieldmice swallowed whole might make . 
The body caressed through my hands like cool satin , and my hands , usually tanned and dark , were pale beside it , and I asked it where the fire colors could come from the coolness of that body . 
I lowered him so he would not fall and his body slid out onto the cool , newly-plowed earth , from between my pale hands . 
The snake worked away very slowly and delicately and with a gorgeous kind of dignity and beauty , and he carried his head a little above the rolled clods . 
The sharp , burning colors of his body stood brilliant and plain against the black soil , like a target . 
I felt good and satisfied , looking at the snake . 
It shone in its bright diamond color against the sun-burned stubble and the crumbled black clods of soil and against the paleness of myself . 
The color and beauty of it were strange and wonderful and somehow alien , too , in that dry and dusty and uncolored field . 
I got on the tractor again and I had to watch the plow closely because the field was drawn across the long hillside and even in that good soil there was a danger of rocks . 
I had my back to the corner of the triangular field that pointed towards the house . 
The earth was a little heavy and I had to stop once and clean the plowshares because they were not scouring properly , and I did not look back towards the place until I had turned the corner and was plowing across the upper line of the large field , a long way from where I had stopped because of the snake . 
I saw it all at a glance . 
The boy was there at the lower corner of the field , and he was in the plowed earth , stamping with ferocity and a kind of frenzied impatience . 
Even at that distance , with no sound but the sound of the tractor , I could tell the fierce mark of brutality on the boy . 
I could see the hunched-up shoulders , the savage determination , the dance of his feet as he ground the snake with his heels , and the pirouette of his arms as he whipped at it with the stick . 
Stop it , I shouted , but the lumbering and mighty tractor roared on , above anything I could say . 
I stopped the tractor and I shouted down to the boy , and I knew he could hear me , for the morning was clear and still , but he did not even hesitate in that brutal , murdering dance . 
It was no use . 
I felt myself tremble , thinking of the diamond light of that beauty I had held a few moments before , and I wanted to run down there and halt , if I could , that frenetic pirouette , catch the boy in the moment of his savagery , and save a glimmer , a remnant , of that which I remembered , but I knew it was already too late . 
I drove the tractor on , not looking down there ; ; I was afraid to look for fear the evil might still be going on . 
My head began to ache , and the fumes of the tractor began to bother my eyes , and I hated the job suddenly , and I thought , there are only moments when one sees beautiful things , and these are soon crushed , or they vanish . 
I felt the anger mount within me . 
The boy waited at the corner , with the jar of water held up to me in his hands , and the water had grown bubbly in the heat of the morning . 
I knew the boy well . 
He was eleven and we had done many things together . 
He was a beautiful boy , really , with finely-spun blonde hair and a smooth and still effeminate face , and his eyelashes were long and dark and brushlike , and his eyes were blue . 
He waited there and he smiled as the tractor came up , as he would smile on any other day . 
He was my nephew , my brother 's son , handsome and warm and newly-scrubbed , with happiness upon his face and his face resembled my brother 's and mine as well . 
I saw then , too , the stake driven straight and hard into the plowed soil , through something there where I had been not long before . 
I stopped the tractor and climbed down and the boy came eagerly up to me . 
" Can I ride around with you " ? ? 
He asked , as he often did , and I had as often let him be on the tractor beside me . 
I looked closely at his eyes , and he was already innocent ; ; the killing was already forgotten in that clear mind of his . 
" No , you can not " , I said , pushing aside the water jar he offered to me . 
I pointed to the splintered , upright stake . 
" Did you do that " ? ? 
I asked . 
" Yes " , he said , eagerly , beginning a kind of dance of excitement . 
" I killed a snake ; ; it was a big one " . 
He tried to take my hand to show me . 
" Why did you kill it " ? ? 
" Snakes are ugly and bad " . 
" This snake was very beautiful . 
Did n't you see how beautiful it was " ? ? 
" Snakes are ugly " , he said again . 
" You saw the colors of it , did n't you ? ? 
Have you ever seen anything like it around here " ? ? 
" Snakes are ugly and bad , and it might have bitten somebody , and they would have died " . 
" You know there are no poisonous snakes in this area . 
This snake could not harm anything " . 
" They eat chickens sometimes " , the boy said . 
" They are ugly and they eat chickens and I hate snakes " . 
" You are talking foolishly " , I said . 
" You killed it because you wanted to kill it , for no other reason " . 
" They 're ugly and I hate them " , the boy insisted . 
" Nobody likes snakes " . 
" It was beautiful " , I said , half to myself . 
The boy skipped along beside me , and he was contented with what he had done . 
The fire of the colors was gone ; ; there was a contorted ugliness now ; ; the colors of its back were dull and gray-looking , torn and smashed in , and dirty from the boy 's shoes . 
The beautifully-tapered head , so delicate and so cool , had been flattened as if in a vise , and the forked tongue splayed out of the twisted , torn mouth . 
The snake was hideous , and I remembered , even then , the cool , bright fire of it only a little while before , and I thought perhaps the boy had always seen it dead and hideous like that , and had not even stopped to see the beauty of it in its life . 
I wrenched the stake out , that the boy had driven through it in the thickest part of its body , between the colored diamond crystals . 
I touched it and the coolness , the ice-feeling , was gone , and even then it moved a little , perhaps a tiny spasm of the dead muscles , and I hoped that it was truly dead , so that I would not have to kill it . 
And then it moved a little more , and I knew the snake was dying , and I would have to kill it there . 
The boy stood off a few feet and he had the stake again and he was racing innocently in circles , making the buzzing tractor sound with his lips . 
I 'm sorry , I thought to the snake , for you were beautiful . 
I took the broken length of it around the tractor and I took one of the wrenches from the tool-kit and I struck its head , not looking at it , to kill it at last , for it could never live . 
The boy came around behind me , dragging the stake . 
" It 's a big snake , is n't it " ? ? 
He said . 
" I 'm going to tell everybody how big a snake I killed " . 
" Do n't you see what you have done " ? ? 
I said . 
" Do n't you see the difference now " ? ? 
" It 's an ugly , terrible snake " , he said . 
He came up and was going to push at it with his heavy shoes . 
I could see the happiness in the boy 's eyes , the gleeful brutality . 
" Do n't " , I said . 
I could have slapped the boy . 
He looked up at me , puzzled , and he swayed his head from side to side . 
I thought , you little brute , you nasty , selfish , little beast , with brutality already developed within that brain and in those eyes . 
I wanted to slap his face , to wipe forever the insolence and brutal glee from his mouth , and I decided then , very suddenly , what I would do . 
