I realized that Hamlet was faced with an entirely different problem , but his agony could have been no greater . 
The most that was accomplished was adding Mrs. Beige 's tray to the dish pile , and by means of repeated threats , on an ascending scale , seeing that the girls dressed themselves , after a fashion . 
I was saved from making the decision as the phone rang , and the girls were upon me instantly . 
Here 's a household hint : if you ca n't find your children , and get tired of calling them , pick up the phone . 
No matter if your children are at the movies , in school , visiting their grandmother , or on a field trip in some distant city , they will be upon you magically within seconds after you pick up the phone . 
Jennie and Miranda twined themselves around me , murmuring endearments . 
Louise climbed onto a stool and clutched the hand with which I was trying to hold the phone , claiming my immediate attention on grounds of extreme emergency . 
Somehow managing to get out a cool , poised , " Wo n't you hold on a second , please " , I covered up the mouthpiece , and with more warmth and less poise , gave a quick lecture on crime and punishment , mostly the latter , including Devil 's Island and the remoter reaches of Siberia . 
I promised to illustrate the lecture , if they so much as breathed till after the call was completed . 
Speaking into the phone again and recognizing the caller , I resumed my everyday voice . 
Soon we were deep in a conversation that was interrupted many times by little things like Jennie 's holding her breath and pretending to black out , Miranda 's dumping the contents of the sugar bowl on the table , and various screeches , thuds , and giggles . 
Under the circumstances , I had difficulty keeping up with the conversation on the phone , but when I hung up I was reasonably certain that Francesca had wanted to remind me of our town meeting the next evening , and how important it was that Hank and I be there . 
I discovered that the girls had shrewdly vacated the kitchen , and were playing quietly in the living room . 
It seemed that I would be the gainer if I accepted the peace and quiet , instead of carrying out my threats . 
Resolving to get something done , I started in on the dishes . 
No . 
I 'm not saying it right . 
What I meant to say was that I started to start in on the dishes by gathering them all together in the kitchen sink . 
They looked so formidable , however , so demanding , that I found myself staring at them in dismay and starting to woolgather again , this time about Francesca and her husband . 
How about them , I thought . 
Francesca and Herbert were among the few people we knew in Catatonia . 
We did n't even know them till about a month after we moved -- at that time , they had called on us , after I met Fran at a PTA meeting , and had taken us in hand socially . 
They had been kind to us and we were indebted to them for one or two pleasant dinners , and for information as to where to shop , which dentist , doctor , plumber , and sitter to call ( not that there was much of a choice , since Catatonia was just a village ; ; the yellow pages of the telephone book were amazingly thin ) . 
They were " personalities " . 
Herb , an expert on narrow ties , thin lapels , and swatches , was men 's fashion editor of Parvenu , the weekly magazine with the tremendous circulation . 
Fran and he had met about two years after she had arrived in Manhattan from Nebraska , or was it Wyoming ? ? 
She was the daughter and sole heiress of either a cattle baron or an oil millionaire and , having arrived in New York with a big bank roll , became a dabbler in various fields . 
She patronized Greenwich Village artists for awhile , then put some money into a Broadway show which was successful ( terrible , but successful ) . 
It was during her " writing " period that she and Herb met and decided that they were in love . 
They were married at a lavish ceremony which was duly recorded in Parvenu and all other magazines and newspapers , and then they honeymooned in Bermuda . 
No , not Bermuda . 
Bermuda was not in style that year . 
They had honeymooned in Rome ; ; everyone was very high on Rome that year . 
They had bought their house in Catatonia after investigating all the regions of suburbia surrounding New York ; ; they had chosen Catatonia because of its reputation for excellent schools , beaches , and abundance of names . 
" You are bound to get involved with people when you have children " , Fran had told me at our first meeting , " so it is good to know that those with whom you get involved are not just dreary little housewives and dull husbands , but People Who Do Things " . 
I admired their easy way of doing things but I could n't escape an uneasiness at their way of always doing the right things . 
Their house was a centuries-old Colonial which they had had restored ( guided by an eminent architect ) and updated , and added on to . 
It had a gourmet 's corner ( instead of a kitchen ) , a breakfast room , a luncheon room , a dining room , a sitting room , a room for standing up , a party room , dressing rooms for everybody , even a room for mud . 
It was all set up so there would be no dust anywhere and so that their children would color in the coloring room , paint in the painting room , play with blocks in the block house , and do all the other things in the proper rooms at exactly the right time . 
Their two boys were " well adjusted " and , like their parents , always did the right thing at the right time and damn the consequences . 
Francesca and Herbert considered themselves violently nonconformist and showed the world they were by filling their Colonial house with contemporary furniture and paintings and other art objects ( expensive , but not necessarily valuable , contemporary things ) . 
Fran flaunted her independence by rebelling against the Catatonia uniform of Bermuda shorts and knee-length socks by wearing Bermuda shorts and knee-length socks in colors ; ; bright pinks and plaids and vivid stripes . 
Sometimes she even wore the uniform in solid , unrelieved black , and with her blonde hair cut so closely , wearing this uniform , she strongly resembled a member of the SS. . No one could dislike them , I thought . 
Sometimes , though , they did not seem quite human . 
It seemed , indeed , that their house was not so much a home , but rather a perfect stage set , and that they were actors who had been handed fat roles in a successful play , and had talent enough to fill the roles competently , with nice understatement . 
Practically the only enthusiasm they showed was when they were discussing " names " ; ; even brand names . 
You should hear the reverence in Fran 's voice when she said " Baccarat " or " Steuben " or " Madame Alexander " . 
She always let it be known that there was wine in the pot roast or that the chicken had been marinated in brandy , and that Koussevitzky 's second cousin was an intimate of theirs . 
I would n't have wasted time puzzling over this couple were it not for my fear that all the other inhabitants of Catatonia were equally unreal . 
I could n't feel at home among them . 
Besides Francesca , there was Blanche . 
Francesca was pleasant and charming , but Blanche was sweet . 
Yes , Blanche was very , very sweet -- being in her company was like being drowned in warm , melted marshmallows . 
I had once been a witness when Blanche had smiled and said with only minimum ruefulness , " Oh , my souffle has collapsed " . 
Anyone knows how a real , red-blooded woman would react to such a catastrophe ! ! 
If Blanche had been honest , she would have yelled , slammed at least a couple of doors , and thrown a few little , valueless things . 
But dear me , no ; ; not Blanche . 
After five minutes with Blanche , one might welcome the astringency of Grazie , who was a sort of Gwen Cafritz to Francesca 's Perle Mesta . 
Francesca and Grazie were habitual committee chairmen and they usually managed to be elected co-chairmen , equal bosses , of whatever PTA or civic project was being launched . 
They were inseparable , not because they were fond of each other , but because they wanted to keep an eye on each other , as they were keen rivals for social leadership . 
Grazie was mean : quietly mean , and bitterly , unfunnily sarcastic . 
She it was who had looked to see if I was wearing shoes upon learning that I could n't drive . 
Grazie had a small , slick head and her hair and skin were the color of golden toast . 
She lived in an ultra-modern house whose decoration , appointments , paint , and even pets were chosen to complement her coloring ; ; the pets were a couple of Siamese cats . 
Her uniform was of rich , raw silk , in a shade which matched her hair , skin , housepaint , and cats , and since she was so thin as to be almost shapeless , she rather resembled a frozen fish stick . 
The husbands of these women and others I had met in Catatonia were distinguished only in that they were , to me at least , indistinguishable . 
I could n't tell one from the other . 
Like Herbert , they were all in communications : radio , television , magazines , and advertising . 
One or two were writers of books ; ; all were fellows of finite charm . 
Each had developed a hair-trigger chuckle and the habit of saying " zounds " ! ! 
In deference to country-squirehood . 
I never thought I 'd live to hear people chuckle and say " zounds " ! ! 
In real life . 
I would n't have missed it for anything . 
They were " sincere " -- men of the too-hearty handclasp and the urgent smile . 
These boys acknowledged an introduction to anybody by gently pressing one of his hands in both of theirs , while they gazed , misty-eyed with care , into the eyes of the person they were meeting . 
Could such unadulterated love , for a total stranger , be credited ? ? 
They were always leaping to light cigarettes , open car doors , fill plates or glasses , and I mistrusted the whole lot of them to the same degree that I mistrusted bake shops that called themselves " Sanitary Bake Shops " . 
" O ! ! 
Pioneers ! ! 
" I thought , and wondered what kind of homesteads such odd pioneers would establish in this suburban frontier ; ; pioneers who looked like off-duty gardeners even at parent-teacher conferences and who never called the school principal " Mister " . 
I sighed , thinking that among other things , people here seemed to be those who would have to cut down if they earned less than $ 85,000 yearly ; ; people who would give their teeth for a chance to get on " Person to Person " ; ; people who thought it was nice to be important , but not important to be nice ; ; who were more ingratiating than gracious , more personalities than persons . 
In my estimation , they were people who read Daphne du Maurier , and discussed Kafka ; ; well , not discussed him exactly , but said , " Kafka " ! ! 
Reverently and raised their eyes , as if they were at a loss to describe how they felt about Kafka , which they were , because they had no opinions about Kafka , not having read Kafka . 
They were , I felt , people invariably trying to prove not who , but what they were , and trying to determine what , not who , others were . 
Becoming aware that it was nearly lunchtime , I brought myself back to the tasks at hand . 
I made plans for the afternoon -- doing the breakfast and luncheon dishes all at once , making the beds , and then maybe painting the kitchen . 
Then , I remembered that the girls had had a banana for dessert every day for the last week . 
" Bananas " ! ! 
Jennie had shouted each time . 
" They 're not dessert ! ! 
They 're not even food . 
They 're just something you 're supposed to put on cereal for breakfast " . 
I dug around and found a mix , and was able to surprise them with a devil's-food cake with chocolate icing . 
( Sometimes I think you need only one rule for cooking : if you ca n't put garlic in it , put chocolate in it . 
) The cake was received in a stunned silence that was evidence in itself of the dearth of taste thrills Mama had been providing . 
Then Jennie closed her eyes , stretched forth her arms , and said : " Take my hand , Louise ; ; I 'm a stranger in paradise " . 
