One day , the children had wanted to get up onto General Burnside 's horse . 
They wanted to see what his back felt like -- the General 's . 
He looked so comfortable being straight . 
They wanted to touch the mystery . 
Arlene was boosting them up when the policeman came by . 
He was very rude . 
Arlene had a hard voice , too , this time . 
The policeman 's eyes rather popped for a second ; ; but then Arlene got another tone in a hurry , and she said , " If it was n't for these dear children " -- . 
The policeman got a confused , funny look on his face , and he had answered kind of politely , " Now , look here , lady : I know you got to entertain these kids and all . 
But this is a public park and it 's a city ordinance that the statues can not be crawled on " . 
Arlene was so ashamed that she hung her head when she said , " Yes , sir " . 
The policeman walked on , but he looked back once . 
that had happened on the day when two other unusual things had occurred . 
Arlene had taught them a new way to have fun in their little private area ; ; and they had told their mother about the tumbles . 
In matters of exact information , that kept her one step behind developments ; ; and so they were consistently true to their principles . 
" Never mind " , Arlene had said , after the policeman had left , having pursued the usual unco-operative course of grownups . 
" Never mind . 
I know something that is much more fun that we can do on our little lawn " . 
" What is it " ? ? 
Asked the children , whose reflexes and replies were invariably so admirably normal and predictable . 
Maybe that was why they were cordial and loyal towards the unpredictability of Arlene . 
" Just you wait " , advised Arlene , echoing the dialogue in a recent British movie . 
And when they had got to their little lawn , they had had a most twirlingly magnificent time . 
First , Arlene had put them through some rapid somersaults . 
They had protested that that was n't any surprise . 
" Just you wait " , said Arlene again , as though she were discovering the pleasantly tingling insinuations of that handy little sturdy statement . 
" This is a warm-up " . 
" Is it anything like cooked-over oatmeal " ? ? 
Asked one of the children . 
" Not the least bit " , Arlene snapped . 
One of the many things that was so nice about her was that she always took your questions seriously , particularly your very , very serious questions . 
Those were especially the ones that all other grownups laughed at loudest . 
She would sometimes even get a little hard on you , she took you so seriously . 
But not hard for very long . 
Just long enough to make you feel important . 
" Now " , said Arlene , eventually , making them both sit in formation on a big root of a live oak , the sort of root that divided itself and made their bottoms sag down and feel comfortable . 
" Now , we 're going to be like what General Burnside and his horse make us think of " . 
The children looked at each other and sagged their bottoms down even more comfortably than ever . 
Their curiosity went happily out of bounds . 
Then , Arlene threw herself backwards and wiggled in a way that was just wonderful . 
She held herself that way and turned her head towards them and laughed and winked . 
" Imagine being able to laugh and wink when you 're like the top part of that picture frame at home " , one of them said . 
They both laughed and winked back . 
" I 'm General Burnside 's horse , upside down " , Arlene said , sort of gaspingly , for her : even she had to breathe kind of funny when she was in that position . 
She made General Burnside 's horse 's belly do so funny when it was upside down . 
Then , she was back on her feet , winking and smiling that enormous smile ( she had lots of wonderful big teeth that you never would have suspected she had when she was not smiling ) . 
And she would wink and throw kisses . 
They both tried to keep smiling and winking for a long time , but it made their lips and eyelids tremble . 
But they kept on clapping for a long , long time . 
" This time " , Arlene said , and she even kept on wiggling a little bit while she was just talking , " you 're going to tell me what I am and what I 'm doing . 
It all has something to do with General Burnside and his horse " . 
This time , it was so grand ; ; they could tell exactly what it was . 
It was General Burnside 's horse running in a circle . 
His legs shook , and the shaking went right on up his body through his hips to his shoulders . 
" That 's the General 's horse " , one of them cried out . 
The other remarked , in a happy laughter , " That 's a funny old horse " . 
The first one said , " He sure does shake . 
He 's old " . 
Then there was the General kissing his wife . 
They had to be told that one . 
But it was even funnier after they had been told . 
Their father , when he came back from those many business trips , just bumped their mother on the forehead with his lips and asked if anybody had thought to mix the martinis and put them in the electric icebox . 
But not General Burnside . 
He was the funniest man . 
He never could keep still , even when he did n't move his feet . 
Then , they had to get up and be General Burnside . 
Or his horse . 
All they could think of was to run around in circles , kicking their legs out . 
It was n't very funny . 
Then , they said General Burnside was going to jump over his horse 's head ; ; and they did some somersaults . 
But that was n't very funny , either . 
" You ought to shake " , Arlene advised them . 
And Arlene showed them how to begin . 
She also taught them to sing " I wish I could shimmy like my sister Kate " . 
that helped a lot . 
They were clumsy , but they were beginning to catch on . 
They also caught on a little bit on how to smile a lot without your lips trembling . 
" Imagine you wo n't get your allowance if you 're caught not smiling -- or smiling with your lips trembling too much " , Arlene suggested . 
that helped a great deal . 
They were a little late in getting home . 
" I 'm sorry , Mrs. Minks " , Arlene said in a tone so low you could hardly hear it . 
My mother constituted herself the voice of all of us . 
" It 's perfectly understandable , Arlene " , my mother said in a friendly way . 
" I suppose you all were playing and forgot " ? ? 
" Yes , ma'am " , the children chorused heartily . 
We could n't help laughing . 
The children rushed off to get rid of their sweaters ; ; and Arlene began tapping the kitchen door open . 
" Arlene 's a good girl " , my uncle remarked to us ; ; but he said it too soon , for it came out just before the tap to which the door responded . 
That tap had a slight bangish quality . 
" She really is a dear little thing " , my mother agreed . 
Her upper lip lifted slightly . 
She was biting into a small red radish ; ; and that action always caused her to lift her lip from the sting of the thing . 
Also , she lived in continual fear of finding a white worm curled up in a neat , mean little heap at the white center of the radish . 
She would try to see over the bulge of her cheeks and somewhat under her teeth to the place where she was biting . 
It never worked , naturally ; ; but it made her look unusual . 
Also , when she had bitten off half of the small radish , she found the suspense unbearable ; ; and she would snatch the finger-held half of the radish out to where she could inspect it . 
One could hear a very faint , ladylike sigh of relief . 
Actually , it was inaudible to anyone not expecting it . 
But the warm joy of her brown eyes was open to the general public . 
Later on , the children told her further about somersaulting . 
" It must be awfully good for them . 
And awfully kind of Arlene " , she told us later . 
" But do you know something curious " ? ? 
She added . 
" I reached into that funny little pocket that is high up on my dress . 
I have no notion why I reached . 
And I found a radish . 
Was it an omen ? ? 
I thought for a second . 
But I would not pamper myself in that silly way . 
I opened the window and threw the radish out " . 
Then , my mother blushed at this small lie ; ; for she knew and we knew that it was cowardice that had made one more radish that night just too impossible a strain . 
Arlene became indispensable ; ; nobody could have told why . 
But she was . 
It was in the air . 
A friend of my father 's came to dinner . 
He was passing through town and phoned to say hello . 
As a result , he was persuaded out to dinner . 
As a matter of fact , this happened every four or five months . 
Sometimes , he coincided with my father 's being at home . 
Sometimes , as at this juncture , he did not . 
But he was always persuaded out . 
He liked children , in a loathsome kind of way ; ; the two youngest in our family always had to be brought in and put through tricks for his entertainment . 
When he had left , I could never remember whether he had poked them in their middles , laughingly , with a thick index finger or whether he was merely so much the sort of person who did this that one assumed the action , not bothering to look . 
The children loathed him , too . 
This evening , they were pushed in from the breakfast room , with odds and ends of dessert distributed over them . 
There had been some coconut in it , for I remember my mother 's taking a quick glance at a stringy bit of this nut on the cheek of one of them and then putting down her radish with a shiver . 
They were pushed gently into the room by Arlene -- whose only part appearing were hands that crept quickly back around to the kitchen side of the door . 
We had just sat down . 
" Tell Mr. Gorboduc what you 're doing these days " , my mother advised the children , ceremonially . 
There was an air of revolt about the children -- even irreverence for their own principles . 
This could be told chiefly from a sort of head-tossing and prancing , a horselike balkiness of demeanor . 
Possibly , the coconut-containing dessert had brought up bitter problems of administration . 
But , at the beginning , this stayed just in the air . 
" We go to the park with this nice lady " , one of them said . 
" We have good times " . 
This happy bulletin convulsed Mr. Gorboduc . 
" You do " ? ? 
He asked , between wheezes of laughter . 
He was forced to wipe his eyes . 
" You do n't step on the flowers , do you ? ? 
Eh " ? ? 
One of the children maneuvered out of range of the poking index finger . 
" No " , he said . 
" We do n't " . 
Mr. Gorboduc took a swig of his sherry . 
He was so long thinking that my mother had time to inspect her sherry for dregs . 
Usually , this was done when attention was diverted by someone else 's long , boring story . 
But this time she was nervous : she was open . 
Mr. Gorboduc was finally in command of his mind again . 
" Tell me -- what do you do at the park " ? ? 
He asked . 
This was delivered in a forthright way , without coyness and over-pretended interest -- an admirable way with children . 
Only , unfortunately , he could not remove from his voice a nagging insinuation of the direct command . 
This nettled the children into the revelation of exact truth , a sacrifice of their secret superiority over grown people , but a victory in the wide fields of perpetration and illegitimate accomplishment . 
" We bump " , one said ; ; and the other went on to development of the idea . 
" We grind , too " , he said . 
My mother was beside herself with curiosity . 
" Say that again " , she pleaded . 
She laughed a little and tossed the dregs rakishly around in her glass . 
" You what " ? ? 
She could see that Mr. Gorboduc was intrigued ; ; the hostess in her took over . 
She was rollickingly happy . 
" You what " ? ? 
My uncle looked at Mr. Gorboduc . 
He read Henry James and used to pretend profundity through eye-beamings at people . 
Mr. Gorboduc looked down . 
He would not look up . 
He was very funny about the whole thing . 
