Santa Barbara -- " The present recovery movement will gather steady momentum to lift the economy to a new historic peak by this autumn " , Beryl W. Sprinkel , economist of Harris Trust & Savings Bank , Chicago , predicted at the closing session here Tuesday of Investment Bankers Assn. , California group , conference . 
Another speaker , William H. Draper , Jr. , former Under Secretary of the Army and now with the Palo Alto venture capital firm of Draper , Gaither & Anderson , urged the U.S. to " throw down the gauntlet of battle to communism and tell Moscow bluntly we wo n't be pushed around any more " . 
He urged support for President Kennedy 's requests for both defense and foreign aid appropriations . 
' not flash in pan ' Sprinkel told conferees that the recent improvement in economic activity was not a " temporary flash in the pan " but the beginning of a substantial cyclical expansion that will carry the economy back to full employment levels and witness a renewal of our traditional growth pattern . 
" In view of the current expansion , which promises to be substantial " he said the odds appear to favor rising interest rates in coming months , but " there is reason to believe the change will not be as abrupt as in 1958 nor as severe as in late 1959 and 1960 " . 
Thesis refuted Sprinkel strongly refuted the current neo-stagnationist thesis that we are facing a future of limited and slow growth , declaring that this pessimism " is based on very limited and questionable evidence " . 
Rather than viewing the abortive recovery in 1959-60 as a reason for believing we have lost prospects for growth " , he said " it should be viewed as a lesson well learned which will increase the probability of substantial improvement in this recovery " . 
Danger cited He cautioned that " the greater danger in this recovery may be excessive stimulation by government which could bring moderate inflation " . 
The economist does not look for a drastic switch in the budget during this recovery and believes it " even more unlikely that the Federal Reserve will aggressively tighten monetary policy in the early phases of the upturn as was the case in 1958 " . 
The unsatisfactory 1958-60 expansion , he said , was not due to inadequate growth forces inherent in our economy but rather to the adverse effect of inappropriate economic policies combined with retrenching decisions resulting from the steel strike . 
Sacrifices needed Draper declared , " As I see it , this country has never faced such great dangers as threaten us today . 
We must justify our heritage . 
We must be ready for any needed sacrifice " . 
He said that from his experience of two years with Gen. Clay in West Berlin administration , that " Russia respects our show of strength , but that presently we 're not acting as we should and must " . 
He called the Cuban tractor plan an outright blackmail action , and noted that in war " you ca n't buy yourself out and that 's what we 're trying to do " . 
While he declined to suggest , how , he said that sooner or later we must get rid of Castro , " for unless we do we 're liable to face similar situations in this hemisphere . 
It s the start of a direct threat to our own security and I do n't believe we can permit that " . 
New York ( AP ) -- Stock market Tuesday staged a technical recovery , erasing all of Monday 's losses in the Associated Press average and making the largest gain in about two weeks . 
Analysts saw the move as a continuation of the recovery drive that got under way late Monday afternoon when the list sank to a hoped-for " support level " represented by around 675 in the Dow Jones industrial average . 
It was a level at which some of the investors standing on the sidelines were thought likely to buy the pivotal issues represented in the averages . 
Some good news Although it looked like a routine technical snapback to Wall Streeters it was accompanied by some good news . 
A substantial rise in new orders and sales of durable goods was reported for last month . 
Treasury Secretary Douglas Dillon said the economy is expected to advance by a whopping 8 % next year , paving the way for lower taxes . 
The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 7.19 to 687.87 . 
Of 1,253 issues traded , 695 advanced and 354 declined . 
New highs for the year totaled nine and new lows 14 . 
Trading was comparatively dull throughout the day . 
Volume dipped to 3.28 million shares from 3.98 million Monday . 
A $ 25 billion advertising budget in an $ 800 billion economy was envisioned for the 1970s here Tuesday by Peter G. Peterson , head of one of the world 's greatest camera firms , in a key address before the American Marketing Assn .. However , Peterson , president of Bell & Howell , warned 800 U.S. marketing leaders attending a national conference at the Ambassador , that the future will belong to the industrialist of creative and " unconventional wisdom " . 
Creations needed " As we look to the $ 800 billion economy that is predicted for 1970 and the increase of about 40 % in consumer expenditures that will be required to reach that goal , management can well be restless about how this tremendous volume and number of new products will be created and marketed " , Peterson said . 
" With this kind of new product log-jam , the premium for brilliant product planning will obviously go up geometrically " . 
The executive paid tribute to research and development and technology for their great contributions in the past , but he also cautioned industry that they tend to be great equalizers because they move at a fairly even pace within an industry and fail to give it the short-term advantage which it often needs . 
Nothing to fear Peterson said America has nothing to fear in world competition if it dares to be original in both marketing and product ideas . 
He cited , as an example , how the American camera industry has been able to meet successfully the competition of Japan despite lower Japanese labor costs , by improving its production know-how and technology . 
He also used as an example the manufacturer who introduced an all-automatic camera in Germany , with the result that it became the best selling camera in the German market . 
Election of Howard L. Taylor to membership in Pacific Coast Stock Exchange , effective Tuesday , has been announced by Thomas P. Phelan , president of the exchange . 
Taylor , president and voting stockholder of Taylor and Co. , Beverly Hills , has been active in the securities business since 1925 . 
Union Oil Co. of California Tuesday offered $ 120 million in debentures to the public through a group of underwriters headed by Dillon , Read & Co. , to raise money to retire a similar amount held by Gulf Oil Corp .. Gulf 's holdings could have been converted into 2,700,877 shares of Union Oil common upon surrender of debentures plus cash , according to Union . 
Under the new offering , only $ 60 million in debentures are convertible into 923,076 common shares . 
Due in 1986 The new offering Tuesday consisted of $ 60 million worth of 4-78 debentures , due June 1 , 1986 , at 100 % , and $ 60 million of 4-12 % convertible subordinated debentures due June 1 , 1991 , at 100 % . 
The convertible debentures are convertible into common shares at $ 65 a share by June 1 , 1966 ; ; $ 70 by 1971 ; ; $ 75 by 1976 ; ; $ 80 by 1981 ; ; $ 85 by 1986 , and $ 90 thereafter . 
New York ( AP ) -- American Stock Exchange prices enjoyed a fairly solid rise but here also trading dwindled . 
Volume was 1.23 million shares , down from Monday 's 1.58 million . 
Gains of 2-34 were posted for Teleprompter and Republic Foil . 
Fairchild Camera and Kawecki Chemical gained 2-12 each . 
Question -- I bought 50 shares of Diversified Growth Stock Fund on Oct. 23 , 1959 , and 50 more shares of the same mutual fund on Feb. 8 , 1960 . 
Something has gone wrong some place . 
I am getting dividends on only 50 shares . 
In other words , I am getting only half the dividends I should . 
Answer -- Write to the fund 's custodian bank -- the First National Bank of Jersey City , N.J .. That bank handles most of the paper work for Diversified Growth Stock Fund , Fundamental Investors , Diversified Investment Fund and Television-Electronics Fund . 
The bank installed a magnetic tape electronic data processing system to handle things . 
But it seems that this " electronic brain " was n't " programmed " correctly . 
This resulted in a great number of errors . 
And letters began to come in to this column from irate shareholders . 
I visited the bank in March and wrote a story about the situation . 
At that time , the people at the bank said they felt that they had the situation in hand . 
They indicated that no new errors were being made and that all old errors would be corrected " within 60 days " . 
That 60-day period is over and letters are still coming in from shareholders of these four funds , complaining about mistakes in their accounts . 
Maybe it 's taking longer to get things squared away than the bankers expected . 
Any shareholder of any of these funds who finds a mistake in his account certainly should get in touch with the bank . 
Doyle can not undertake to reply to inquiries . 
He selects queries or general interest to answer . 
Washington ( AP ) -- Alfred Hayes , president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York , said Tuesday " there is no present need for far-reaching reforms " which would basically alter the international financial system . 
Hayes said that if a way can be found to deal effectively with short-term capital movements between nations , " there is no reason , in my judgment why the international financial system can not work satisfactorily for at least the foreseeable future " . 
Washington ( UPI ) -- New York Central Railroad president Alfred E. Perlman said Tuesday his line would face the threat of bankruptcy if the Chesapeake & Ohio and Baltimore & Ohio Railroads merge . 
Perlman said bankruptcy would not be an immediate effect of the merger , but could possibly be an ultimate effect . 
The railroad president made the statement in an interview as the Interstate Commerce Commission opened Round 2 of its hearing into the C & O 's request to control and then merge with the B & A[fj] . 
" All these kind of things weaken us " , Perlman said . 
Bad condition Board Chairman Howard Simpson of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co. , testified the B & O was in its worst financial condition since the depression years and badly needed the economic lift it would get from consolidation with the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad . 
" The financial situation of the Baltimore & Ohio , has become precarious -- much worse than at any time since the depression of the 1930s " , he told the hearing . 
C & O president Walter J. Tuohy was summoned back for cross-examination by New York Central attorneys before examiner John Bradford who is hearing the complex case . 
The New York Central also has asked the ICC to permit it to gain control of the B & A[fj] . 
Central was rebuffed by the other two railroads in previous attempts to make it a three-way merger . 
The proposed C & O-B & O railroad would make it the hemisphere 's second largest . 
Washington ( AP ) -- The government 's short-term borrowing costs rose with Tuesday 's weekly offering of Treasury bills . 
On $ 1.1 billion of 90-day bills , the average yield was 2.325 % . 
The rate a week ago was 2.295 % . 
Washington , March 11 ( UPI ) . 
-- " Consumer uncertain about economic conditions " . 
This was the chief reason for a so-so sales outlook given by two-thirds of 56 builders polled by the National Housing Center . 
Other reasons mentioned by one-third or more of the builders were " resistance to high interest rates , cost advantage of buying over renting has narrowed , shelter market nearing saturation and prospects unable to qualify " . 
Increase expected The poll was taken at the Center 's annual builders ' intentions conference . 
It disclosed that the builders : Expect their own production volume , and presumably sales , to jump 30 percent in 1961 . 
Look for home building nationally to advance less than 10 percent this year from 1960 's 1,257,700 non-farm housing starts . 
The industry has said 1960 was a poor year . 
Starts were down 20 percent from 1959 . 
Why the discrepancy between the builders ' forecasts for themselves and for the industry ? ? 
Leaders of industry The reason , says the Housing Center , is that the builders invited to the intentions conference " are generally among the more successful businessmen , and usually do somewhat better than their fellow builders " . 
