Enrique Jorda , conductor and musical director of the San Francisco Symphony , will fulfill two more guest conducting engagements in Europe before returning home to open the symphony 's Golden Anniversary season , it was announced . 
The guest assignments are scheduled for November 14 and 18 , with the Orchestra Sinfonica Siciliana in Palermo and the Orchestra of Radio Cologne . 
The season in San Francisco will open with a special Gala Concert on November 22 . 
During his five-month visit abroad , Jorda recently conducted the Orchestre Philharmonique De Bordeau in France , and the Santa Cecilia Orchestra in Rome . 
In announcing Jorda 's return , the orchestra also announced that the sale of single tickets for the 50th anniversary season will start at the Sherman Clay box office on Wednesday . 
Guest performers and conductors during the coming season will include many renowned artists who began their careers playing with the orchestra , including violinists Yehudi Menuhin , Isaac Stern , Ruggiero Ricci and David Abel ; ; pianists Leon Fleisher , Ruth Slenczynka and Stephen Bishop and conductor Earl Bernard Murray . 
The Leningrad Kirov Ballet , which opened a series of performances Friday night at the Opera House , is , I think , the finest " classical " ballet company I have ever seen , and the production of the Petipa-Tschaikowsky " Sleeping Beauty " with which it began the series is incomparably the finest I have ever had the pleasure of witnessing . 
This work is no favorite of mine . 
I am prepared to demonstrate at anytime that it represents the spirit of Imperial Russia in its most vulgar , infantile , and reactionary aspect ; ; that its persistent use by ballet companies of the Soviet regime indicates that that old spirit is just as stultifying alive today as it ever was ; ; that its presentation in this country is part of a capitalist plot to boobify the American people ; ; that its choreography is undistinguished and its score a shapeless assemblage of self-plagiarisms . 
All of this is true and all of it is totally meaningless in the face of the Kirov 's utterly captivating presentation . 
Precise The reasons for this enchantment are numerous , but most of them end in " ova " , " eva " , or " aya " . 
In other words , no merely male creature can resist that corps de ballet . 
It seems to have been chosen exclusively from the winners of beauty contests -- Miss Omsk , Miss Pinsk , Miss Stalingr oops , skip it . 
These qualities alone , however , would not account for their success , and it took me a while to discover the crowning virtue that completes this company 's collective personality . 
It is a kind of friendliness and frankness of address toward the audience which we have been led to believe was peculiar to the American ballet . 
Oh-the-pain-of-it , that convention of Russian ballet whereby the girls convey the idea that they are all the daughters of impoverished Grand Dukes driven to the stage out of filial piety , is totally absent from the Kirov . 
This is all the more remarkable because the Kirov is to ballet what Senator Goldwater is to American politics . 
But , obviously , at least some things have changed for the better in Russia so far as the ballet is concerned . 
Irina Kolpakova , the Princess Aurora of Friday 's performance , would be a change for the better anywhere , at any time , no matter who had had the role before . 
She is the most beautiful thing you ever laid eyes on , and her dancing has a feminine suavity , lightness , sparkle , and refinement which are simply incomparable . 
Hit Alla Sizova , who seems to have made a special hit in the East , was delightful as the lady Bluebird and her partner , Yuri Soloviev , was wonderfully virile , acrobatic , and poetic all at the same time , in a tradition not unlike that of Nijinsky . 
Vladilen Semenov , a fine " danseur noble " ; ; Konstantin Shatilov , a great character dancer ; ; and Inna Zubkovskaya , an excellent Lilac Fairy , were other outstanding members of the cast , but every member of the cast was magnificent . 
The production , designed by Simon Virsaladze , was completely traditional but traditional in the right way . 
It was done with great taste , was big and spacious , sumptuous as the dreams of any peasant in its courtly costumes , but sumptuous in a muted , pastel-like style , with rich , quiet harmonies of color between the costumes themselves and between the costumes and the scenery . 
Evegeni Dubovskoi conducted an exceptionally large orchestra , one containing excellent soloists -- the violin solos by the concertmaster , Guy Lumia , were especially fine -- but one in which the core of traveling players and the body of men added locally had not had time to achieve much unity . 
Mail orders are now being received for the series of concerts to be given this season under the auspices of the San Francisco Chamber Music Society . 
The season will open at the new Hall of Flowers in Golden Gate Park on November 20 at 8:30 p.m. with a concert by the Mills Chamber Players . 
Sustaining members may sign up at $ 25 for the ten-concert season ; ; annual members may attend for $ 16 . 
Participating members may attend five of the concerts for $ 9 ( not all ten concerts as was erroneously announced earlier in The Chronicle ) . 
Mail orders for the season and orders for single tickets at $ 2 , may be addressed to the society , 1044 Chestnut Street , San Francisco 9 . 
San Francisco firemen busied themselves last week with their annual voluntary task of fixing up toys for distribution to needy children . 
Fire Fighters Local 798 , which is sponsoring the toy program for the 12th straight year , issued a call for San Franciscans to turn in discarded toys , which will be repaired by off-duty firemen . 
Toys will not be collected at firehouses this year . 
They will be accepted at all branches of the Bay View Federal Savings and Loan Association , at a collection center in the center of the Stonestown mall , and at the Junior Museum , 16th Street and Roosevelt Way . 
From the collection centers , toys will be taken to a warehouse at 198 Second street , where they will be repaired and made ready for distribution . 
Any needy family living in San Francisco can obtain toys by writing to Christmas Toys , 676 Howard street , San Francisco 5 , and listing the parent 's name and address and the age and sex of each child in the family between the ages of 1 and 12 . 
Requests must be mailed in by December 5 . 
Famed cellist Pablo Casals took his instrument to the East Room of the White House yesterday and charmed the staff with a two-hour rehearsal . 
He was getting the feel of the room for a concert tomorrow night for Puerto Rico Governor Luis Munoz Marin . 
President Kennedy 's invitation to the Spanish-born master said , " We feel your performance as one of the world 's greatest artists would lend distinction to the entertainment of our guests " . 
For A good many seasons I 've been looking at the naughty stuff on television , so the other night I thought I ought to see how immorality is doing on the other side of the fence in movies . 
After all , this year 's movies are next year 's television shows . 
So I went to see " La Dolce Vita " . 
It has been billed as a towering monument to immorality . 
All the sins of ancient Rome are said to be collected into this three-hour film . 
If that 's all the Romans did , it 's a surprise to me that Rome fell . 
After television , " La Dolce Vita " seems as harmless as a Gray Line tour of North Beach at night . 
I can not imagine a single scene that is n't done in a far naughtier manner on TV every week . 
I believe TV watchers will be bored . 
" La Dolce Vita " has none of the senseless brutality or sadism of the average TV Western . 
Week in , week out , there is more sex to be seen in " The Adventures Of Ozzie And Harriet " . 
There is more decadence on " 77 Sunset Strip " . 
There are more obvious nymphomaniacs on any private-eye series . 
In another respect , television viewers will feel right at home because most of the actors are unknowns . 
With the exception of Lex Barker and Anita Ekberg , the credits are as unfamiliar as you 'll find on the Robert Herridge Theater . 
Most of the emphasis has been placed on a " wild party " at a seaside villa . 
Producer Fellini should have looked at some of the old silent films where they really had parties ! ! 
The Dolce Vita get-together boasted a strip tease ( carried as far as a black slip ) ; ; a lady drunk on her hands and knees who carries the hero around on her back while he throws pillow feathers in her face ; ; a frigid beauty , and three silly fairies . 
Put them all together and they spell out the only four-letter word I can think of : dull . 
Apparently Fellini caught the crowd when its parties had begun to pall . 
What a swinging group they must have been when they first started entertaining ! ! 
As A moral shocker it is a dud . 
But this does n't detract from its merit as an interesting , if not great , film . 
The Chronicle 's Paine Knickerbocker summed it up neatly : " This is a long picture and a controversial one , but basically it is a moral , enthralling and heartbreaking description of humans who have become unlinked from life as perhaps Rome has from her traditional political , cultural and religious glories " . 
And when they sell it to television in a couple of years , it can be shown without editing . 
Tonight Atlantic Monthly editor Edward Weeks moderates a round table of four Russian writers in a discussion of Soviet literature . 
Among the subjects discussed will be Russian restrictions on poets and writers in the USSR ( Channel 9 at 9:30 ) . 
Person To Person ventilates the home lives of Johnny Mercer and Joan Collins -- both in Southern California ( Channel 5 at 10:30 ) KQED Summer Music Festival features a live concert by the Capello De Musica ( Channel 9 at 8:30 ) . 
NBC plans a new series of three long programs exploring America 's scientific plans titled " Threshold " , to start in the fall . 
" Science In Action " , San Francisco 's venerable television program , will be seen in Hong Kong this fall in four languages : Mandarin , Cantonese , Chiuchow and English , according to a tip from Dr. Robert C. Miller . 
And you think you have language problems . 
The week went along briskly enough . 
I bought a new little foreign bomb . 
It is a British bomb . 
Very austere yet racy . 
It is very chic to drive foreign cars . 
With a foreign car you must wear a cap -- it has a leather band in the back . 
You must also wear a car coat . 
The wardrobe for a foreign bomb is a little expensive . 
But we could n't really get along without it . 
" Where do you put the lighter fluid , ha , ha " ? ? 
Asked the gas station man . 
The present crop of small cars is enriching American humor . 
Gas station people are very debonair about small cars . 
When I drove a car with tail fins , I had plenty status at the wind-and-water oases . 
My car gulped 20 gallons without even wiping its mouth . 
This excellent foreign bomb takes only six . 
When I had my big job with the double headlights and yards of chrome , the gas people were happy to see me . 
" Tires OK ? ? 
Check the oil and water , sir ? ? 
" They polished the windshield . 
They had a loving touch . 
The man stuck the nozzle in the gas tank . 
" What kind of car is it " ? ? 
He asked gloomily . 
" It is a British Austin , the smallest they make " . 
" Get much mileage " ? ? 
" About 35 " . 
The gas station man sighed unhappily . 
" What I always say is what if somebody clobbers you in a little car like that ? ? 
Crunch , that 's all she wrote " . 
" I will die rich " . 
" That will be $ 1.80 " , said the gas station man . 
" The windshield looks pretty clean " . 
Ah , the fair-weather friends of yesteryear ! ! 
When I wheeled about , finned fore and aft , I was the darling of the doormen . 
Dollar bills skidded off my hands and they tipped their caps politely . 
With a small bomb , I tuck it between Cadillacs . 
( The last doorman that saw me do that should calm himself . 
High blood pressure can get the best of any of us . 
