A year ago it was bruited that the primary character in Erich Maria Remarque 's new novel was based on the Marquis Alfonso De Portago , the Spanish nobleman who died driving in the Mille Miglia automobile race of 1957 . 
If this was in fact Mr. Remarque 's intention he has achieved a notable failure . 
Clerfayt of " Heaven Has No Favorites " resembles Portago only in that he is male and a race-driver -- quite a bad race-driver , whereas Portago was a good one . 
He is a dull , unformed , and aimless person ; ; the twelfth Marquis De Portago was intelligent , purposeful , and passionate . 
One looked forward to Mr. Remarque 's ninth book if only because not even a reasonably good novel has yet been written grounded on automobile racing , as dramatic a sport as mankind has devised . 
Unhappily , " Heaven Has No Favorites " does not alter the record except to add one more bad book to the list . 
Mr. Remarque 's conception of this novel was sound and perhaps even noble . 
He proposed throwing together a man in an occupation of high hazard and a woman balanced on a knife-edge between death from tuberculosis and recovery . 
His treatment of it is something else . 
His heroine chooses to die -- the price of recovery , years under the strict regimen of a sanatorium , being higher than she wishes to pay . 
Her lover precedes her in death , at the wheel , and presumably he too has chosen . 
Between the first meeting of Clerfayt and Lillian and this dismal denouement , Mr. Remarque has laid down many pages of junior-philosophical discourse , some demure and rather fetching love-making , pleasant talk about some of the countryside and restaurants of Europe , and a modicum of automobile racing . 
The ramblings on life , death , and the wonder of it all are distressing ; ; the love-making , perhaps because it is pale and low-key when one has been conditioned to expect harsh colors and explicitness , is often charming ; ; the automobile racing bears little relation to reality . 
This latter failure is more than merely bad reportage and it is distinctly more important than it would have been had the author drawn Clerfayt as , say , a tournament golfer . 
Hazards to life and limb on the golf course , while existent , are actuarially insignificant . 
Race-drivers , on the other hand , are quite often killed on the circuit , and since it was obviously Mr. Remarque 's intention to establish automobile racing as life in microcosm , one might reasonably have expected him to demonstrate precise knowledge not only of techniques but of mores and attitudes . 
He does not . 
The jacket biography describes him as a former racing driver , and he may indeed have been , although I do not recall having encountered his name either in the records or the literature . 
Perhaps he has only forgotten a great deal . 
The book carries a disclaimer in which Remarque says it has been necessary for him to take minor liberties with some of the procedures and formalities of racing . 
The necessity is not clear to me , and , in any case , to present a case-hardened race-driver as saying he has left his car , which , or whom , he calls " Giuseppe " , parked " on the Place Vendome sneering at a dozen Bentleys and Rolls-Royces parked around him " is not a liberty ; ; it is an absurdity . 
But it is in the matter of preoccupation with death , which is the primary concern of the book , that Remarque 's failure is plainest . 
Clerfayt is neurotic , preoccupied , and passive . 
To be human , he believes , is to seek one 's own destruction : the Freudian " death-wish " cliche inevitably cited whenever laymen talk about auto race-drivers . 
In point of fact , the race-drivers one knows are nearly always intelligent , healthy technicians who differ from other technicians only in the depth of the passion they feel for the work by which they live . 
A Clerfayt may moon on about the face of Death in the cockpit ; ; a Portago could say , as he did say to me , " If I die tomorrow , still I have had twenty-eight wonderful years ; ; but I sha n't die tomorrow ; ; I 'll live to be 105 " . 
Clerfayt , transported , may think of the engine driving his car as " a mystical beast under the hood " . 
The Italian master Piero Taruffi , no less sensitive , knows twice the ecstasy though he thinks of a car 's adhesion to a wet two-lane road at 165 miles an hour as a matter best expressed in algebraic formulae . 
Clerfayt , driving , sees himself " a volcano whose cone funneled down to hell " ; ; the Briton Stirling Moss , one of the greatest virtuosi of all time , believes that ultra-fast road-circuit driving is an art form related to ballet . 
Errors in technical terminology suggest that the over-all translation from the German may not convey quite everything Mr. Remarque hoped to tell us . 
However , my principal objection in this sort of novel is to the hackneyed treatment of race-drivers , pilots , submariners , atomic researchers , and all the machine-masters of our age as brooding mystics or hysterical fatalists . 
The west is leaderless , according to this book . 
In contrast , the East is ably led by such stalwart heroes as Khrushchev , Tito , and Mao . 
Against this invincible determination to communize the whole world stands a group of nations unable to agree on fundamentals and each refusing to make any sacrifice of sovereignty for the common good of all . 
It is Field Marshal Montgomery 's belief that in most Western countries about 60 per cent of the people do not really care about democracy or Christianity ; ; about 30 per cent call themselves Christians in order to keep up appearances and be considered respectable , and only the last 10 per cent are genuine Christians and believers in democracy . 
But these Western countries do care about themselves . 
Each feels intensely national . 
If , say , the Russians intended to stop Tom Jones ' going to the pub , then Tom Jones would fight the Commies . 
But he would fight for his own liberty rather than for any abstract principle connected with it -- such as " cause " . 
For all practical purposes , the West stands disunited , undedicated , and unprepared for the tasks of world leadership . 
With this barrage , Montgomery of Alamein launches his attack upon the blunderings of the West . 
Never given to mincing words , he places heavy blame upon the faulty , uncourageous leadership of Britain and particularly America . 
At war 's end leadership in Western Europe passed from Britain because the Labour Government devoted its attention to the creation of a welfare state . 
With Britain looking inward , overseas problems were neglected and the baton was passed on to the United States . 
Montgomery believes that she started well . 
" America gave generously in economic aid and military equipment to friend and foe alike " . 
She pushed wartorn and poverty-stricken nations into prosperity , but she failed to lead them into unity and world peace . 
America has divided more than she has united the West . 
The reasons are that America generally believes that she can buy anything with dollars , and that she compulsively strives to be liked . 
However , she really does not know how to match the quantity of dollars given away by a quality of leadership that is basically needed . 
But the greater reason for fumbling , stumbling American leadership is due to the shock her pride suffered when the Japanese attacked at Pearl Harbor . 
" They are determined " , Montgomery writes , " not to be surprised again , and now insist on a state of readiness for war which is not only unnecessary , but also creates nervousness among other nations in the Western Alliance -- not to mention such great suspicions among the nations of the Eastern bloc that any progress towards peaceful coexistence or disarmament is not possible " . 
The net result is that under American leadership the general world situation has become bad . 
To " Monty " , the American people , who in two previous world wars were very reluctant to join the fight , " now look like the nation most likely to lead us all into a third World War " . 
As faulty as has been our leadership clearly the United States must be relied upon to lead . 
The path to leadership is made clear . 
Montgomery calls for a leader who will first put the West 's own house in order . 
Such a man must be able and willing to give clear and sensible advice to the whole group , a person in whom all the member nations will have absolute confidence . 
This leader must be a man who lives above illusions that heretofore have shaped the foreign policy of the United States , namely that Russia will agree to a reunited Germany , that the East German government does not exist , that events in Japan in June 1960 were Communist-inspired , that the true government of China is in Formosa , that Mao was the evil influence behind Khrushchev at the Summit Conference in Paris in May 1960 , and that either China or Russia wants or expects war . 
Such a leader must strengthen NATO politically , and establish that true unity about which it has always talked . 
After drastically overhauling NATO , Western leadership should turn to reducing the suspicions that tear apart the East and West . 
Major to this effort is to get all world powers to withdraw to their own territories , say by 1970 . 
" The West should make the central proposal ; ; but the East would have to show sincerity in carrying it out " . 
" But where is the leader who will handle all these things for us " ? ? 
Montgomery knew all the national leaders up to the time of Kennedy . 
The man whom he would select as our leader for this great task is De Gaulle . 
He alone has the wisdom , the conviction , the tenacity , and the courage to reach a decision . 
But De Gaulle is buried in the cause of restoring France 's lost soul . 
Whoever rises to the occasion walks a treacherous path to leadership . 
The leader Montgomery envisages will need to discipline himself , lead a carefully regulated and orderly life , allow time for quiet thought and reflection , adapt decisions and plans to changing situations , be ruthless , particularly with inefficiency , and be honest and morally proper . 
All in all , Montgomery calls for a leader who will anticipate and dominate the events that surround him . 
In looking as far back as Moses , thence to Cromwell , Napoleon , Lincoln , Churchill , and Nehru , Montgomery attempts to trace the stirrings and qualities of great men . 
He believes that greatness is a marriage between the man and the times as was aptly represented by Churchill , who would very possibly have gone down in history as a political failure if it had not been for Hitler 's war . 
However , Montgomery makes little contribution to leadership theory and practice . 
Most of what is said about his great men of history has already been said , and what has not is largely irrelevant to the contemporary scene . 
Like Eisenhower , he holds the militarist 's suspicion of politicians . 
However , at the same time Montgomery selects as his hero De Gaulle , who is a militarist dominated by political ambitions . 
" Monty " shows a remarkable capacity for the direct statement and an equally remarkable incapacity for giving adequate support . 
For the most part , his writing rambles and jogs , preventing easy access by the reader to his true thoughts . 
Nevertheless , Montgomery has stated courageously and wisely the crisis of the Western world . 
It suffers from a lack of unity of purpose and respect for heroic leadership . 
And it remains to be seen if the new frontier now taking form can produce the leadership and wisdom necessary to understand the current shape of events . 
It is no common thing for a listener ( critical or otherwise ) to hear a singer " live " for the first time only after he has died . 
But then , Mario Lanza was no common singer , and his whole career , public and non-public , was studded with the kind of unconventional happenings that terminate with the appearance of his first " recital " only when he has ceased to be a living voice . 
It is a kind of justice , too , that it should originate in London 's Royal Albert Hall , where , traditionally , the loudest , if not the greatest , performers have entertained the thousands it will accommodate ( RCA Victor LM 2454 , $ 4.98 ) . 
To be sure , Lanza made numerous concert tours , here and abroad , but these did not take him to New York where the carping critic might lurk . 
