Marketing in the new decade will be no picnic -- for the sixties will present possibly the most intense competitive activity that you have experienced in the last 20-25 yrs .. Why ? ? 
Companies of all types have made great advances in production capabilities and efficiencies -- in modern equipment and new processes , enlarged R & D facilities , faster new product development . 
Many companies have upgraded their sales manpower and tested new selling , distribution , and promotion techniques to gain a bigger competitive edge . 
Given this kind of business climate , what competitive marketing problems will your company face in the next 10 yrs. ? ? 
Based on our experience with clients , , we see 14 major problems which fall into three broad groups -- the market place itself , marketing methods , and marketing management . 
1 . 
Problems in the market greater price-consciousness . 
There has been an intensification of price-consciousness in recent years ; ; there is every indication it will continue . 
Frequently , wittingly or unwittingly , price-consciousness has been fostered by manufacturers , distributors , and dealers . 
Despite generally good levels of income , we see greater price pressures than ever before -- traveling back along the chain from consumer to distributor to manufacturer . 
Here are some key areas to examine to make sure your pricing strategy will be on target : Has the probable price situation in your field been forecast as a basis for future planning ? ? 
Have cost studies been made of every phase of your operation to determine what might be done if things get worse ? ? 
Have you actually checked out ( not just mentally tested ) different selling approaches designed to counter the price competition problem ? ? 
Increased customer sophistication . 
Average consumer is becoming more sophisticated regarding product and advertising claims , partly because of widespread criticism of such assertions . 
This problem can force a change in marketing approach in many kinds of businesses . 
Have you examined this problem of increasing consumer sophistication from the standpoint of your own company ? ? 
Greater demand for services . 
Need for service is here to stay -- and the problem is going to be tougher to solve in the sixties . 
There are two reasons for this . 
First , most products tend to become more complex . 
Second , in a competitive market , the customer feels his weight and throws it around . 
Providing good customer service requires as thorough a marketing and general management planning job as the original selling of the product . 
Too often it is thought of at the last moment of new product introduction . 
Good service starts with product design and planning : Many products seem to be designed for a production economy , not for a service one . 
Proper follow-through requires training your own sales organization , and your distributor organizations , not only in the techniques but also in good customer relations . 
Have you assessed the importance of service and given it proper attention ? ? 
Wider discretionary choices for customers . 
In spending his money today , the consumer is pulled in many directions . 
To the manufacturer of the more convenient-type product -- the purchase of which can be switched , delayed , or put off entirely -- the implications are important . 
Your competition is now proportionately greater -- you are competing not only against manufacturers in the same field but also against a vast array of manufacturers of other appealing consumer products . 
Many industry trade associations are developing campaigns to protect or enhance the share of the consumer 's dollar being spent on their particular products . 
Has your company thought through its strategy in this whole " discretionary buying " area ? ? 
Geographic shift of customers . 
The trends have been in evidence for many years -- population shifts to the Southwest and Far West , and from city to suburbs . 
These shifts will continue in the next 10 yrs .. Have you considered the implications of continuing geographic shifts in terms of sales force allocation , strength of distributor organizations , and even plant location ? ? 
Market concentration and distribution in fewer accounts . 
We have already witnessed great changes through mergers and acquisitions in the food industry -- at both the manufacturing and retail ends . 
Instead of relatively small sales to many accounts , there are now larger sales to or through fewer accounts . 
The change may require different products , pricing , packaging , warehousing , salesmanship , advertising and executive attention -- practically every link in the marketing network may have to be adjusted . 
Have you examined these trends , forecast the effects , and planned your marketing strategy to compete effectively under changing circumstances ? ? 
2 . 
Problems in marketing methods more private label competition . 
In the area of private label competition , it is logical to expect a continuation of trends which have been under way during the first decade . 
As mass dealer and distributor organizations grow in size , there is every reason to expect them to try to share in the manufacturer 's as well as the distributor 's profits -- which is , in effect , what the sale of private brands tends to do . 
Average manufacturer frequently has helped build private brand business , delivering largely the same qualities and styles in private brand merchandise as in branded . 
Moreover , the larger and more aggressive mass distribution outlets and chain stores have insisted on high quality -- and the customer seems to have caught on . 
If you are up against private brand competition , have you formulated a long-term program for researching and strengthening your market position ? ? 
If private brand competition has n't been felt in your product field as yet , have you thought how you will cope with it if and when it does appear ? ? 
Less personal salesmanship . 
Display merchandising , backed by pre-selling through advertising and promotion , will continue to make strides in the sixties . 
It has multiple implications and possible headaches for your marketing program . 
How can you cash in on this fast-growing type of outlet and still maintain relationships with older existing outlets which are still important ? ? 
If you have a higher-quality product , how can you make it stand out -- justify its premium price -- without the spoken word ? ? 
Salesmanship is still necessary , but it 's a different brand of salesmanship . 
Have you carefully examined the selling techniques which best suit your products ? ? 
Have you studied the caliber and sales approaches of your sales force in relation to requirements for effective marketing ? ? 
Are you experimenting with different selling slants in developing new customers ? ? 
Higher costs of distribution generally . 
Some distribution costs are kept up by competitive pressure , some by the fact that the customers have come to expect certain niceties and flourishes . 
No manufacturer has taken the initiative in pointing out the costs involved . 
The use of bulk handling is continuously growing . 
Computers are being used to keep branch inventories at more workable levels . 
" Selective selling " -- concentrating sales on the larger accounts -- has been used effectively by some manufacturers . 
There may be possible economies at any one of a number of links in your marketing and distribution chain . 
Do you have a program for scrutinizing all these links regularly and carefully -- and with some imagination ? ? 
In your sales force , will a smaller number of higher-priced , high-quality salesmen serve you best , or can you make out better with a larger number of lower-paid salesmen ? ? 
Will your trade customers settle for less attention and fewer frills in return for some benefit they can share ? ? 
In one company covering the country with a high-quality sales force of 10 men , the president personally phones each major account every 6 mos .. As a result , distribution costs were cut , customer relations improved . 
Distribution costs are almost bound to increase in the sixties -- and you will never know what you can do to control them unless you study each element and experiment with alternative ways of doing the job . 
Higher costs of advertising and promotion . 
From the manufacturer 's point of view , the increasing cost of advertising and promotion is a very real problem to be faced in the sixties . 
It is accentuated by the need for pre-selling goods , and private label competition . 
How much fundamental thinking and research has your company done on its advertising program ? ? 
Are you following competition willy-nilly -- trying to match dollar for dollar -- or are you experimenting with new means for reaching and influencing consumers ? ? 
Have you evaluated the proper place of advertising and all phases of promotion in your total marketing program -- from the standpoint of effort , money , and effectiveness ? ? 
Increasing tempo of new product development . 
Practically all forecasts mention new and exciting products on the horizon . 
Will you be out in the market place with some of these sales-building new products ? ? 
If competition beats you to it , this exciting new product era can have real headaches in store . 
On the other hand , the process of obsoleting an old product and introducing the new one is usually mighty expensive . 
As markets become larger and marketing more complex , the costs of an error become progressively larger . 
Is your R & D or product development program tuned in to the commercial realities of the market ? ? 
Are there regular communications from the field , or meetings of sales and marketing personnel with R & D people ? ? 
Technical knowledge is a wonderful thing , but it 's useless unless it eventually feeds the cash register . 
Are there individuals in your organization who can shepherd a new product through to commercialization ; ; who can develop reliable estimates of sales volume , production , and distribution costs ; ; and translate the whole into profit and loss and balance sheet figures which management can act on with some assurance ? ? 
We have seen good new products shelved because no one had the assignment to develop such facts and plans -- and management could n't make up its mind . 
3 . 
Problems in marketing management shortage of skilled salesmen . 
There is a shortage of salesmen today . 
In the future , quantitative demand will be greater because of the expansion of the economy , and the qualitative need will be greater still . 
While many companies have done fine work in developing sales personnel , much of it has been product rather than sales training . 
Nor has the training been enough in relation to the need . 
Most marketing people agree it is going to take redoubled efforts to satisfy future requirements . 
Have you estimated your sales manpower needs for the future ( both quantitatively and qualitatively ) ? ? 
Has your company developed selection and training processes that are geared to providing the caliber of salesmen you will need in the next 10 yrs. ? ? 
Shortage of sales management talent . 
With the growing complexity of markets and intensity of competition , sales management , whether at the district , region or headquarters level , is a tough job today -- and it will be tougher in the future . 
Men qualified for the broader task of marketing manager are even more scarce due to the demanding combination of qualifications called for by this type of management work . 
The growth of business has outdistanced the available supply , and the demand will continue to exceed the supply in the sixties . 
Does your company have a program for selecting and developing sales and marketing management personnel for the longer term ? ? 
Does your management climate and your management compensation plan attract and keep top-notch marketing people ? ? 
Complexity of complete marketing planning . 
Every single problem touched on thus far is related to good marketing planning . 
" Hip-pocket " tactics are going to be harder to apply . 
Many food and beverage companies are already on a highly planned basis . 
They have to be . 
With greater investments in plant facilities , with automation growing , you ca n't switch around , either in volume or in product design , as much as was formerly possible -- or at least not as economically . 
Are planning and strategy development emphasized sufficiently in your company ? ? 
We find too many sales and marketing executives so burdened with detail that they are short-changing planning . 
Are annual marketing plans reviewed throughout your management group to get the perspective of all individuals and get everyone on the marketing team ? ? 
Do you have a long-term ( 5 - or 10-yr. ) marketing program ? ? 
The key to effective marketing is wrapped up in defining your company 's marketing problems realistically . 
Solutions frequently suggest themselves when you accurately pinpoint your problems , whether they be in the market , in marketing methods or in marketing management . 
If companies will take the time to give objective consideration to their major problems and to the questions they provoke , then a long constructive step will have been taken toward more effective marketing in next decade . 
