General How long has it been since you reviewed the objectives of your benefit and service program ? ? 
Have you permitted it to become a giveaway program rather than one that has the goal of improved employee morale and , consequently , increased productivity ? ? 
What effort do you make to assess results of your program ? ? 
Do you measure its relation to reduced absenteeism , turnover , accidents , and grievances , and to improved quality and output ? ? 
Have you set specific objectives for your employee publication ? ? 
Is it reaching these goals ? ? 
Is it larger or fancier than you really need ? ? 
Are you using the most economical printing methods , paper , etc .. Are there other , cheaper communications techniques that could be substituted ? ? 
Has your attitude toward employee benefits encouraged an excess of free " government " work in your plant ? ? 
Is your purchasing agent offering too much free-buying service for employees ? ? 
When improvements are recommended in working conditions -- such as lighting , rest rooms , eating facilities , air-conditioning -- do you try to set a measure of their effectiveness on productivity ? ? 
When negotiating with your union , do you make sure employees have a choice between new benefits and their cents-per-hour cost in wages . 
Can you consider restricting any additional employee benefits to those paid for by profit-sharing money , such as was done in the union contract recently signed by American Motors Corporation ? ? 
Insurance Do your employees understand all the benefits to which your insurance entitles them ? ? 
Are they encouraged to take full legal advantage of these benefits ? ? 
Have you publicized the cents-per-hour value of the company 's share of insurance premiums ? ? 
When did you last compare your present premium costs with the costs of insurance from other sources ? ? 
Can your insurance company aid you in reducing administrative costs ? ? 
Do you try to maintain the principle of employee-contributed ( as opposed to fully company-paid ) programs ? ? 
Holidays , time off , overtime Do you protect your holiday privileges with an attendance requirement both before and after the holiday ? ? 
Do you plan to limit additional holidays to area and industrial patterns ? ? 
Have you investigated the possibility of moving midweek holidays forward to Monday or back to Friday in order to have an uninterrupted work week ? ? 
Are you carefully policing wash-up time and rest periods to be certain that all other time is productive ? ? 
Are you watching work schedules for boiler operators , guards , and other 24-hour-day , 7-day-week operations in order to minimize overtime ? ? 
Are you careful to restrict the number of people on leave at one time so that your total employment obligation is minimized ? ? 
Plant feeding facilities Have you considered using vending equipment to replace or reduce the number of cafeteria employees ? ? 
What are the possibilities for operating your cafeteria for a single shift only and relying upon vending machines or prepackaged sandwiches for the second - and third-shift operations ? ? 
Have you checked the cost of subcontracting your cafeteria operation in order to save administrative costs ? ? 
Are there possibilities of having cafeteria help work part-time on custodial or other jobs ? ? 
Can staggered lunch periods relieve the capacity strain on your feeding facilities ? ? 
Would it be feasible to limit the menu in order to reduce feeding costs ? ? 
Have you considered gradual withdrawal of subsidies to your in-plant feeding operation ? ? 
Are you utilizing cafeteria space for company meetings or discussions ? ? 
Recreation facilities Are your expenses in this area commensurate with the number of employees who benefit from your program ? ? 
Have you audited your program recently to weed out those phases that draw least participation ? ? 
Do employees contribute their share of money to recreational facilities ? ? 
Have you considered delegating operational responsibility to your employee association and carefully restricting your plant 's financial contribution ? ? 
Could an employee 's garden club take over partial care of plant grounds ? ? 
Would a camera club be useful in taking pictures pertinent to plant safety ? ? 
Are you spending too much money on team uniforms that benefit only a few employees ? ? 
Are you underwriting expensive team trips ? ? 
Are you utilizing vending machine proceeds to help pay for your program ? ? 
Transportation and parking Do you know the trend in your cost of maintaining access roads and parking lots ? ? 
If you use parking attendants , can they be replaced by automatic parking gates ? ? 
Will your local bus company erect and maintain the bus stops at your plant ? ? 
If you provide inter-plant transportation , can this be replaced by available public transportation ? ? 
If you use company transportation to meet trains or to haul visitors , would taxis be cheaper ? ? 
How efficient and necessary are your intra-company vehicles ? ? 
Can they be re-scheduled ? ? 
Can part-time drivers be assigned to other productive work ? ? 
Paid vacations Which is more economical for your plant -- a vacation shutdown or spaced vacations that require extra employees for vacation fill-ins ? ? 
Can vacations be spaced throughout the 12 months to minimize the number of employee fill-ins ? ? 
Do you insist that unneeded salary employees take their vacations during plant shutdowns ? ? 
What can your sales and purchasing departments do to curtail orders , shipments , and receipts during vacation shutdown periods ? ? 
Retirement Is an arbitrary retirement age of 65 actually costing your plant money ? ? 
What sort of effort do you make to assure that older or disabled workers are fully productive ? ? 
Would early retirement of non-productive , disabled employees reduce the number of make-work jobs ? ? 
Will your union accept seniority concessions in assigning work for older or disabled employees ? ? 
Medical and health Can you share medical facilities and staff with neighboring plants ? ? 
If you have a full-time doctor now , can he be replaced with a part-time doctor or one who serves on a fee-per-case basis only ? ? 
Can your plant nurse be replaced by a trained first-aid man who works full-time on some other assignment ? ? 
Do you rigidly distinguish between job - and non-job-connected health problems and avoid treating the latter ? ? 
Are you indiscriminantly offering unnecessary medical services -- flu shots , sun lamp treatments , etc. ? ? 
If you have an annual or regular physical examination program , is it worth what it is costing you ? ? 
A program to fit your needs Consider what you can afford to spend and what your goals are before setting up or revamping your employee benefit program . 
Too many plant officials are all too eager to buy a package program from an insurance company simply because it works for another plant . 
But even if that other plant employs the same number of workers and makes the same product , there are other facts to consider . 
How old is your working force ? ? 
What 's your profit margin ? ? 
In what section of the country are you located ? ? 
Are you in a rural or urban area ? ? 
These factors can make the difference between waste and efficiency in any benefit program . 
Above all , do n't set up extravagant fringe benefits just to buy employee good will . 
Unions stress fringe benefits , but the individual hourly worker prefers cash every time . 
Aim to balance your employee benefit package . 
Some plants go overboard on one type of fringe -- say a liberal retirement plan -- and find themselves vulnerable elsewhere . 
They 're asking for union trouble . 
Communications If you want credit for your employee services program , let your workers know what they 're entitled to . 
Encourage them to exercise their benefits . 
This can be done by stories in your house organs , posters , special publications , letters to workers ' homes as well as by word of mouth through your chain of command . 
Some companies find a little imagination helpful . 
Hallmark Cards , Inc. , Kansas City , Mo. , has a do-it-yourself quiz game called " Benefit Bafflers " , which it distributes to employees . 
M & R Dietetic Laboratories , Inc. , Columbus , gives all its workers a facsimile checkbook -- each check showing the amount the company spends on a particular fringe . 
U.S. Rubber Company , New York , passes out a form itemizing the value of benefits . 
The blue-collar worker thus knows his insurance package , for example , costs $ 227.72 . 
Insurance Have the insurance company or your own accounting department break down the cost of your insurance package periodically . 
You may find certain coverage costing much more than is economically feasible , thereby alerting you to desirable revisions . 
Check to see if some of your benefits -- such as on-the-job disability pay -- can be put on a direct payment rather than an insured basis at a savings to you . 
Use deductable insurance wherever feasible . 
It can put an end to marginal claims which play havoc with your insurance rates . 
Also , beware of open-end policies , especially in the medical field . 
This will mean that every time there 's an increase in hospital rates your cost will go up in like manner . 
Put a dollar-and-cents limit on benefits . 
Do n't go overboard on insurance that pays benefits only upon death . 
Generally , your employee will greatly appreciate benefits that protect him during his working life or during retirement . 
Special time off In granting bereavement leaves , specify the maximum time off and list what the worker 's relation to the deceased must be to qualify . 
Thus , you avoid headaches when an employee wants off for his fourth cousin 's funeral . 
Also , reserve the right to demand proof of death despite the fact that you 'll probably never use it . 
Coffee breaks can be a real headache if not regulated . 
Vending machines can alleviate the long hike to the cafeteria during the break with resulting waste of production time . 
If coffee is sold at the cafeteria , let a few workers in each department get it for the whole group . 
Consider installing supplemental serving lines in production areas . 
Make sure milk for the coffee is placed in dispensers rather than in containers , if you are supplying the coffee . 
Otherwise , you may be saddled with a good-size milk bill by milk drinkers . 
Retirement policies Keep the retirement age flexible so skilled craftsmen such as tool and die makers can be kept on the job for the convenience of the company . 
And so deadheads on the payroll can be eased out at the earliest possible age . 
Make sure you have minimum age and time-on-the-job requirements tied into your pension plan . 
Younger men usually do n't think of pensions as an important job benefit factor anyhow and they 're liable to change jobs several times before settling down . 
Choose carefully between contributory or non-contributory pension plans . 
There are two sides of a coin for this decision . 
Workers usually think more of a plan they contribute to . 
And they can at least collect the money they put in , plus interest , when they leave the company . 
A non-contributory plan usually wo n't pay off for the worker until he retires . 
Thus , there is an added incentive to stay on the job . 
Holidays Make sure you do n't pay for holidays that occur when an employee would not otherwise be working . 
These include : leaves of absences , illnesses , and layoffs . 
Consider adopting a system of holidays in which time off is granted with an eye to minimum inconvenience to the operation of the plant . 
It 's usually not too hard to sell workers on this as it gives them longer holiday periods . 
For example , the Friday after Thanksgiving can be substituted for Washington 's birthday . 
This reduces the number of expensive plant shutdowns and startups . 
Require each employee to work his last shift both before and after the holiday to be eligible for pay . 
This cuts the absentee rate . 
Eating facilities Consider using vending machines rather than subsidized cafeterias . 
Latest models serve hot meals at reasonable prices , and at a profit to you . 
If a concessionaire runs the cafeteria , keep an eye out for quality and price . 
If the soup tastes like dishwater , your employees wo n't blame the concessionaire . 
You 'll take the rap . 
Check your cafeteria location to make sure it 's convenient for most employees . 
You may save valuable production minutes with a change . 
Vacations Spread your vacation period over the widest possible span of time or shut the plant down for two weeks . 
This will cut the expense of vacation replacements . 
And with the shutdown method there will be no argument as to who gets the choice vacation dates . 
Also make sure you have reasonable requirements as to hours worked before a production employee is entitled to a vacation . 
You might try providing standard vacation time off but make the vacation pay depend on the number of hours worked in the previous year . 
