You can build this vacation cottage yourself . 
It is a full scale , small , but efficient house that can become a year 'round retreat complete in every detail . 
Because of the unique design by the architect Egils Hermanovski , you can build most of it in your own home workshop in your spare time . 
Most of it is panelized and utilizes standard materials , and requires the use of only simple tools . 
On the following pages and in the following issues we take you every step of the way to your vacation cottage , from choosing the proper site to applying the final trim . 
In recognition of the growing trend for second homes , or vacation cottages , we have designed this one specifically with the family handyman in mind . 
It is a big project , not to be taken lightly . 
But each step has been broken down into easy stages , utilizing standard materials and simple tools , well within the capabilities of the handyman . 
The theory The idea behind our design is modular units , or panelization . 
Everything possible has been scaled to standard sizes and measurements of materials . 
Wall panels and structural timbers are standard as are windows and doors , making for a minimum of cutting . 
We have developed an ingenious method of interlocking these so that you can make the major part of your house in your own workshop , panel by panel , according to plan . 
Thus , when you have prepared your foundation and laid the floor , these can be trucked to the site and erected with a small crew of friends in a weekend . 
The roof timbers are precut and the panels standard so that the house can be completely enclosed in a matter of three or four days . 
Then you can do the finishing touches at your leisure . 
A warning Due to the fact that building codes and regulations vary so much throughout the country , the first thing to do is to find out what , if any , they are . 
Close to a large city they might even specify the size of the nails used ; ; in a remote section there might be no restrictions at all . 
This can usually be found out at the nearest town hall . 
At the same time check the electrical , plumbing , and sanitary requirements , as well as possible zoning regulations . 
Whether electricity and public water and sewers are available or not , check the local customs in the use of bottled or L-P gas ( we give you alternatives later on ) . 
Be sure that this information is reasonably official and not just an unfounded opinion . 
If there are any major restrictions , they usually can be obtained in printed form . 
Where a building permit is required , find out what you must present when applying for one . 
In many cases , you must file a complete set of plans with the local building inspector . 
These will be available at cost from our Plans Department . 
The site Some general things to look for in a site , if you have n't already bought one , are accessibility , water drainage , and orientation . 
How are the roads , and how will they stand up ? ? 
Is there evidence of wash-outs on the property ; ; swampy areas or intermittent springs ? ? 
A visit in the early spring after a thaw will be very informative . 
Note where the sun rises and sets , and ask which direction the prevailing winds and storms come from . 
Will the view be something you can live with ? ? 
Do n't worry too much about rocky or sloping terrain ; ; we will take up alternative foundations later on . 
The materials With this first issue we give you a list of the materials needed to build the basic ( AjA version ) and the expandable ( AjB version ) . 
