It was John who found the lion tracks . 
He found them near the carcass of a zebra that had been killed the night before , and he circled once , nose to the ground , hair shooting up along his back , as it did when he was after lion or bear , and then he lifted his head and bayed , and the pack joined in , all heads high , and Jones knew it was a hot trail . 
He stifled the Comanche yell and let John lead him straight toward the nearby black volcanic mountain . 
This mountain was known as The Black Reef and it rose almost perpendicularly for about two hundred feet , honeycombed with caves , top covered with dense scrub and creepers and tall grass . 
On the south it ended sharply as though the lava had been cut off there suddenly . 
Kearton and Ulyate had started the day together while Jones followed the dogs , and Means and Loveless had taken another route , and now , with the discovery of the fresh trail still unknown to him , Ulyate reined in , in the shadow of the Reef and pointed . 
Kearton focussed his field glasses . 
" That 's the Colonel " , he said , " But I ca n't see the dogs " . 
As they watched , Jones rode straight for the Reef . 
Then they picked up the smaller black specks on the plain in front of him . 
The dogs were working a trail -- lion ? ? 
Hyena ? ? 
The pack had made a bend to the north , swinging back toward the Reef , and Kearton and Ulyate could hear them faintly . 
Kearton got off and tore up some dry grass that grew in cracks between the rocks and piled it in a heap and wanted to make the smoke signal that would bring Loveless and Means and the rest of the party . 
" Not yet " , cautioned Ulyate . 
Jones came toward them fast , now , along the southern toe of the Reef , and the dogs could be heard plainly , Old John with his Grand Canyon voice outstanding above the others . 
There was Sounder , too , also a veteran of the North Rim , and Rastus and the Rake from a pack of English fox-hounds , and a collie from a London pound , and Simba , a terrier . 
A motley pack , chosen for effectiveness , not beauty . 
Jones was galloping close behind them leaning down , cheering them on . 
" Light it " ! ! 
Ulyate said , and Kearton touched a match to the pile of grass , blew on it and flame licked out . 
He threw green stuff on it , and a thin blue column of smoke rose . 
" That will fetch the gang and tell the Colonel where we are " . 
Two quick shots sounded . 
Then there was a chorus of wild barking and baying . 
Then the heavy roar of a lion . 
Kearton and Ulyate looked at each other and began to gallop toward the sound . 
It came from the top of the Reef not half a mile away . 
At the base of the rocky hillside , they left their horses and climbed on foot . 
The route was choked with rugged lava-rocks , creepers and bushes , so thickly overgrown that when Kearton lost sight of Ulyate and called , Ulyate answered from ten feet away . 
Nice country to meet a lion in face to face . 
Ulyate and Kearton climbed on toward the sound of the barking of the dogs and the sporadic roaring of the lion , till they came , out of breath , to the crest , and peering through the branches of a bush , this is what Ulyate saw : Jones who had apparently ( and actually had ) ridden up the nearly impassable hillside , sitting calmly on his horse within forty feet of a full-grown young lioness , who was crouched on a flat rock and seemed just about to charge him , while the dogs whirled around her . 
Ulyate drew back with a start , and put finger to lips , almost afraid to move or whisper lest it set her off , " The dogs have got her bayed . 
She 's just the other side of that bush " ! ! 
And when they had drawn back a step he added : " Jones is sitting on his horse right in front of her . 
Why she does n't charge him , I do n't know . 
And he has n't even got a knife on him . 
He could n't get away from her in this kind of ground . 
Careful , do n't disturb her " . 
Jones had been about a hundred and fifty feet from her when he first broke through to the top of the Reef . 
She was standing on a flat rock three feet above ground and when she saw him she rose to full height and roared , opening her mouth wide , lashing her tail , and stamping at the rock with both forefeet in irritation , as much as to say : " How dare you disturb me in my sacred precinct " ? ? 
Intuition told him , however , that she was tired and winded from the run up the Reef and would not charge , yet . 
He moved forward to within thirty-five feet of her , being careful , because he knew the female is less predictable than the male . 
( In the graveyard at Nairobi he had been shown the graves of thirty-four big game hunters killed hunting the animals he was attempting to lasso . 
Of the thirty-four , seventeen had been killed by lions , and eleven out of the seventeen by lionesses . 
) She snarled terribly but intuition told him , again , that she was bluffing , and he could see that half her attention was distracted by the dogs . 
He threw the lasso . 
It was falling over her head when a branch of a bush caught it and it fell in front of her on the rock . 
Even then , if she took one step forward he could catch her . 
But John nipped her rear end -- one lion 's rear end was as good as another to John , Africa , Arizona no matter -- and she changed ends and took a swipe at John , but he ducked back . 
Jones then recoiled his rope and threw again , this time hitting her on the back but failing to encircle her . 
She whirled and faced him , roaring terribly , and Ulyate , watching through the leaves , could not understand why she did not charge and obliterate him , because he would n't have much of a chance of getting away , in that thick growth , but she seemed just a trace uncertain ; ; while Jones , on the other hand , appeared perfectly confident and Ulyate decided perhaps that was the answer . 
From the lioness ' point of view , this strange creature on the back of another creature , lashing out with its long thin paw , very likely appeared as something she could not at first cope with . 
But now she sank lower to the rock . 
Her roar changed to a growl . 
Her tail no longer lashed . 
Although she appeared more subdued and defeated , Jones knew she was growing more dangerous . 
She was rested and could mount a charge . 
Just the tip of her tail was moving as she crouched , and she was treading lightly up and down with her hind feet . 
At this moment , Loveless and Means arrived , crashing through the undergrowth with their horses , and distracted her , and she ran off a short distance and jumped into a crevice between two rocks . 
The dogs followed her and she killed three and badly wounded Old John . 
" We 've got to get her out of there " ! ! 
Jones yelled , " or she 'll kill 'em all . 
Bring me the firecrackers " . 
For such an emergency he had included Fourth-of-July cannon crackers as part of their equipment . 
Lighting one he pitched it into the crevice , and the lioness left off mauling the dogs and departed . 
" Ai n't she a beauty , though " ? ? 
Called out Means as she ran . 
" Do n't you go a step nearer her than I do " , Jones warned , " and if you do , go at a run so you 'll have momentum " ! ! 
For two hours they drove her from one strong point to another along the side of the Reef , trying to maneuver her onto the plain where they could get a good throw . 
But she clung to the rocks and brush , and the day wore away . 
It was hot . 
The dogs were tired . 
The men were tired too . 
It was the story of the rhinoceros fight all over again . 
And the sun was beginning to go down . 
If dark came they would lose her . 
" I 'll get a pole " , Jones said finally , " and I 'll poke a noose over her head " ! ! 
At this moment she was crouched in a cave-like aperture halfway down the Reef . 
Ulyate made no comment but his face showed what he thought of poking ropes over lions ' heads with poles , and of course these were the lions of fifty years ago , not the gentler ones of today , and this one was angry , with good reason . 
Loveless , too , objected . 
" It wo n't work , Colonel " . 
" Just the same we 'll try it " . 
But without waiting for them to try it , she scattered the dogs and shot down the Reef and out across the plain . 
John led the chase after her and the other dogs strung out behind , many of them trailing blood . 
John himself was bruised and clawed from head to tail , but he was in this fight to the finish , running almost as strongly now as in the morning . 
She took refuge on a tongue of land extending into a gully , crouched at the base of a thorn tree , and waited for them to come up . 
She had chosen the spot well . 
With the gully on three sides , she could be approached only along the tongue of land . 
" Careful , now " , Jones warned . 
Means tried her first . 
Very slowly he maneuvered his rawboned bay gelding , edging closer , watching for a chance to throw , but ready to spin and run , rope whining about his head , horse edging tensely under him , but the gelding was obedient and responded and was not paralyzed by the close proximity of the lion . 
They tell you horses go crazy at the sight or smell of a bear or a lion , but these did n't . 
Means edged closer . 
She snarled warningly . 
Means spit and edged on . 
Again she snarled , and again he edged . 
The pony was sidewise to her . 
With a whirling jump , it could get into gear . 
However nothing on four legs was supposed to be faster than a lion over a short distance , unless it was a cheetah . 
She charged . 
Means spun and spurred . 
For thirty yards she gained rapidly . 
She was closing and within one more bound would have been able to reach the rear end of the bay , but -- and here Jones and Loveless and Ulyate were holding breath for all they were worth -- she never quite caught up that last bound . 
Means held steady one jump ahead of her . 
Then gradually he began to pull away . 
A Western cowpony had outrun an African lion , from a standing start . 
Photos showed later that she 'd been about six feet from Means . 
Of course the factor of head start made all the difference . 
How much head start ? ? 
No one knew exactly . 
That was the whole question . 
Enough , was the answer . 
The lioness quickly changed front , when she saw she could n't catch Means , and made for Jones . 
As she had done with Means , she gained rapidly at first , but then Baldy began to draw away . 
Somewhere in the few scant yards of head start was the determining point . 
When Jones too drew away , she returned to a thorn bush in the neck of land running into the gully , crouched low and waited as before . 
This new position , however , gave the ropers a better chance . 
There was room to make a quick dash past the bush and throw as you went . 
So : Means edged around on the north side of her , Jones moved in from the south . 
Tossing his rope and shouting he attracted her attention . 
He succeeded almost too well , because once she rose as if to charge , and he half wheeled his horse -- he was within fifty feet -- but she sank back . 
From behind her Means shot forward at a run . 
Kearton began shouting , " Wait , wait -- the camera 's jammed " ! ! 
But Means kept on . 
He raced by within twenty feet of her , roped her around the neck , but a lioness ' neck is short and thick and with a quick twist she slipped the noose off . 
