How did I get to be sixty-five so fast ? ? 
What do I do now " ? ? 
Yes , retirement seems to creep upon you suddenly . 
Somehow we old-timers never figured we would ever retire . 
We always thought we would die with our boots on . 
Out of the blue comes talk of pension plans . 
Compulsory retirement at sixty-five looms on our horizon . 
Still , it seems in the far future . 
Suddenly , one day , up it pops ! ! 
Sixty-five years and you 've had it ! ! 
So , now what ? ? 
Oh sure ! ! 
You 've thought about it before in a hazy sort of way . 
But ! ! 
It never seemed real ; ; never seemed as if it could happen to you ; ; only to the other fellow . 
Now ! ! 
Here it is ! ! 
How am I going to live ? ? 
What am I going to do ? ? 
Where do I go from here ? ? 
A great many retired people are the so-called white collar workers . 
Are you one of these ? ? 
If so , you are of the old school . 
You are conscientious , hard working , honest , accurate , a good penman , and a stickler for a job well done , with no loose ends . 
Everything must balance to the last penny . 
Also you can spell , without consulting a dictionary for every other word . 
You never are late for work and seldom absent . 
Actually , you can take no special credit for this . 
It is the way you were taught and your way of life . 
All this is standard equipment for a man of your day ; ; your stock in trade ; ; your livelihood . 
However , the last few years of your life , things seem to be changing . 
Your way does n't seem to be so darned important any more . 
You realize you are getting in the old fogy class . 
To put it bluntly , you are getting out-moded . 
What 's happened ? ? 
The answer is a new era . 
Now , looming on the horizon are such things as estimated totals , calculated risks and I.B.M. machines . 
The Planning Dept. comes into existence . 
All sorts of plans come to life . 
This is followed by a boom in conferences . 
Yes sir ! ! 
Conferences become very popular . 
When a plan burst its seams , hasty conferences supply the necessary patch , and life goes merrily on . 
That 's called progress ! ! 
The new way of life ! ! 
Let 's face it ! ! 
You had your day and it was a good day . 
Let this generation have theirs . 
Time marches on ! ! 
Well , to get back to the problem of retirement . 
Every retiring person has a different situation facing him . 
Some have plenty of money -- some have very little money . 
Some are blest with an abundance of good health -- some are in poor health and many are invalids . 
Some have lovely homes -- some live in small apartments . 
Some have beautiful gardens -- some not even a blade of grass . 
Some have serenity of mind , the ability to accept what they have , and make the most of it ( a wonderful gift to have , believe me ) -- some see only darkness , the bitter side of everything . 
Well , whatever you have , that 's it ! ! 
You 've got to learn to live with it . 
Now ! ! 
The question is " How are you going to live with it " ? ? 
You can sit back and moan and bewail your lot . 
Yes ! ! 
You can do this . 
But , if you do , your life will be just one thing -- unhappiness -- complete and unabridged . 
It seems to me , the first thing you 've got to do , to be happy , is to face up to your problems , no matter what they may be . 
Make up your mind to pool your resources and get the most out of your remaining years of life . 
One thing , I am sure of , you must get an interest in life . 
You 've got to do something . 
Many of you will say , " Well , what can I do " ? ? 
Believe me ! ! 
There are many , many things to do . 
Find out what you like to do most and really give it a whirl . 
If you ca n't think of a thing to do , try something -- anything . 
Maybe you will surprise yourself . 
True ! ! 
We are not all great artists . 
I , frankly , ca n't draw a straight line . 
Maybe you are not that gifted either , but how about puttering around with the old paints ? ? 
You may amaze yourself and acquire a real knack for it . 
Anyway , I 'll bet you have a lot of fun . 
Do you like to sew ? ? 
Does making your own clothes or even doll clothes , interest you ? ? 
Do you love to run up a hem , sew on buttons , make neat buttonholes ? ? 
If you do , go to it . 
There is always a market for this line of work . 
Some women can sit and sew , crochet , tat or knit by the hour , and look calm and relaxed and turn out beautiful work . 
Where sewing is concerned , I 'm a total loss . 
When you see a needle in my hands you will know the family buttons have fallen off and I have to sew them back on , or get out the safety pins . 
Then again , there 's always that lovely old pastime of hooking or braiding rugs . 
Not for me , but perhaps just the thing for you . 
Well ! ! 
How 's about mosaic tile , ceramics or similar arts and crafts ? ? 
Some people love to crack tile and it 's amazing what beautiful designs they come up with as a result of their cracking good time . 
How about the art of cooking ? ? 
Do you yearn to make cakes and pies , or special cookies and candies ? ? 
There is always an open market for this sort of delicacy , in spite of low calorie diets , cottage cheese and hands-off-all-sweets to the contrary . 
Some people can carve most anything out of a piece of wood . 
Some make beautiful chairs , cabinets , chests , doll houses , etc .. Perhaps you could n't do that but have you ever tried to see what you could do with a hunk of wood ? ? 
Outside of cutting your fingers , maybe you would come up with nothing at all , but then again , you might turn out some dandy little gadgets . 
Some women get a real thrill out of housework . 
They love to dust , scrub , polish , wax floors , move the furniture around from place to place , take down the curtains , put up new ones and have themselves a real ball . 
Maybe that 's your forte . 
It certainly is n't mine . 
I can look at furniture in one spot year in and year out and really feel for sure that 's where it belongs . 
Perhaps you would like to become a writer . 
This gives you a wide and varied choice . 
Will it be short stories , fiction , nonfiction , biography , poetry , children 's stories , or even a book if you are really ambitious ? ? 
Ever since I was a child , I have always had a yen to try my hand at writing . 
If you do decide to write , you will soon become acquainted with rejection slips and dejection . 
Do n't be discouraged ! ! 
This is just being a normal writer . 
Just let the rejection slips fall where they may , and keep on plugging , and finally you will make the grade . 
Few new writers have their first story accepted , so they tell me . 
But , it could happen , and it may happen to you . 
Then there 's always hobbies , collecting stamps , coins , timetables , salt and pepper shakers , elephants , dogs , dolls , shells , or shall we just say collecting anything your heart desires ? ? 
I can hear some of you folks protesting . 
You say , " But it costs a lot of money to have a hobby . 
I have n't got that kind of money " . 
True ! ! 
It does cost a lot of money for most hobbies but there are hobbies that are for free . 
How about a rock collection , or a collection of leaves from different trees or shrubs and in different colors ? ? 
Then , take flowers . 
They are many and varied . 
Also , there 's scrap books , collecting newspaper pictures and clippings , or any items of interest to you . 
It 's getting interested in something that counts . 
As for me , I am holding in reserve two huge puzzles ( I love puzzles ) to put together when time hangs heavy on my hands . 
So far , the covers have never been off the boxes . 
I just do n't have time to do half the things I want to do now . 
So in closing , fellow retired members , I advise you to make the most of each day , enjoy each one to the n'th degree . 
Travel , if you can . 
Keep occupied to the point you are not bored with life and you will truly find these final days and years of your lives to be sunshine sweet . 
Good Luck ! ! 
To one and all -- Good Days ahead ! ! 
An important criterion of maturity is creativity . 
The mature person is creative . 
What does it mean to be creative , a term we hear with increasing frequency these days ? ? 
When we turn to Noah Webster we find him helpful as usual . 
" To be creative is to have the ability to cause to exist -- to produce where nothing was before -- to bring forth an original production of human intelligence or power " . 
We are creative , it seems , when we produce something which has not previously existed . 
Thus creativity may run all the way from making a cake , building a chicken coop , or producing a book , to founding a business , creating a League of Nations or , developing a mature character . 
All living creatures from the lowest form of insect or animal life evidence the power of creativity , if it is only to reproduce a form like their own . 
While man shares this procreative function with all his predecessors in the evolutionary process , he is the only animal with a true non-instinctive and conscious creative ability . 
An animal , bird or insect creates either a burrow , or nest or hive in unending sameness according to specie . 
Man 's great superiority over these evolutionary forbears is in the development of his imagination . 
This gives him the power to form in his mind new image combinations of old memories , ideas and experiences and to project them outside of himself into his environment in new and ever-changing forms . 
It has been truly said that anything man can imagine he can produce or create by projecting this inner image into its counterpart in the objective world . 
In our own time we have seen the most fantastic imagery of a Jules Verne come into actuality . 
The vision of a Lord Tennyson expressed in a poem 100 years ago took visible form over London in the air blitzes of 1941 . 
In fact all of our civilized world is the resultant of man 's projection of his imagination over the past 60 centuries or more . 
It is in this one aspect , at least , that man seems to be made in the image of his Creator . 
Not only can man project his imagination out into his environment in concrete forms , but even more importantly , he can turn it inward to help create new and better forms of himself . 
We recognize that young people through imaginative mind and body training can become athletes , acrobats , dancers , musicians and artists , developing many potentialities . 
We know that actors can learn to portray a wide variety of character roles . 
By this same combination of the will and the imagination , each one of us can learn to portray permanently the kind of character we would like to be . 
We must realize with Prof. Charles Morris in his The Open Self that " Man is the being that can continually remake himself , the artisan that is himself the material for his own creation " . 
So far in history man has been too greatly over-occupied with projecting things into his environment rather than first creating the sort of person who can make the highest use of the things he has created . 
Is not the present world crisis a race between things we have created which can now destroy us and between populations of sufficient wisdom and character to forestall the tragedy . 
Is it not the obligation of us older citizens to lend our weight to being creative on the character side and to hasten our own maturing process ? ? 
Sir Julian Huxley in his book Uniqueness Of Man makes the novel point that just as man is unique in being the only animal which requires a long period of infancy and childhood under family protection , so is he the only animal who has a long period after the decline of his procreativity . 
