On April 17 , 1610 , the sturdy little three-masted bark , Discovery , weighed anchor in St. Katherine 's Pool , London , and floated down the Thames toward the sea . 
She carried , besides her captain , a crew of twenty-one and provisions for a voyage of exploration of the Arctic waters of North America . 
Seventeen months later , on September 6 , 1611 , an Irish fishing boat sighted the Discovery limping eastward outside Galway Bay . 
When she reached port , she was found to have on board only eight men , all near starvation . 
The captain was gone , and the mate was gone . 
The man who now commanded her had started the voyage as an ordinary seaman . 
What disaster struck the Discovery during those seventeen months ? ? 
What happened to the fourteen missing men ? ? 
These questions have remained one of the great sea mysteries of all time . 
For hundreds of years , the evidence available consisted of ( 1 ) the captain 's fragmentary journal , ( 2 ) a highly prejudiced account by one of the survivors , ( 3 ) a note found in a dead man 's desk on board , and ( 4 ) several second-hand reports . 
All told , they offered a highly confused picture . 
But since 1927 , researchers digging into ancient court records and legal files have been able to find illuminating pieces of information . 
Not enough to do away with all doubts , but sufficient to give a fairly accurate picture of the events of the voyage . 
Historians have had two reasons for persisting so long in their investigations . 
First , they wanted to clarify a tantalizing , bizarre enigma . 
Second , they believed it important to determine the fate of the captain -- a man whose name is permanently stamped on our maps , on American towns and counties , on a great American river , and on half a million square miles of Arctic seas . 
The name : Henry Hudson . 
This is the story of his last tragic voyage , as nearly as we are able -- or ever , probably , will be able -- to determine : The sailing in the spring of 1610 was Hudson 's fourth in four years . 
Each time his objective had been the same -- a direct water passage from Western Europe to the Far East . 
In 1607 and 1608 , the English Muscovy Company had sent him northward to look for a route over the North Pole or across the top of Russia . 
Twice he had failed , and the Muscovy Company indicated it would not back him again . 
In 1609 , the Dutch East India Company hired Hudson , gave him two learned geographers , fitted him out with a ship called the Half Moon , and supplied him with Dutch sailors . 
This time he turned westward , to the middle Atlantic coast of North America . 
His chief discovery was important -- the Great North ( later , the Hudson ) River -- but it produced no northwest passage . 
When the Half Moon put in at Dartmouth , England , in the fall of 1609 , word of Hudson 's findings leaked out , and English interest in him revived . 
The government forbade Hudson to return to Amsterdam with his ship . 
He thereupon went to London and spent the winter talking to men of wealth . 
By springtime , he was supported by a rich merchant syndicate under the patronage of Henry , Prince of Wales . 
He had obtained and provisioned a veteran ship called the Discovery and had recruited a crew of twenty-one , the largest he had ever commanded . 
The purpose of this fourth voyage was clear . 
A century of exploration had established that a great land mass , North and South America , lay between Europe and the Indies . 
One by one , the openings in the coast that promised a passage through had been explored and discarded . 
In fact , Hudson 's sail up the Great North River had disposed of one of the last hopes . 
But there remained one mysterious , unexplored gap , far to the north . 
Nearly twenty-five years before , Captain John Davis had noted , as he sailed near the Arctic Circle , " a very great gulf , the water whirling and roaring , as it were the meeting of tides " . 
He named this opening , between Baffin Island and Labrador , the " Furious Overfall " . 
( Later , it was to be called Hudson Strait . 
) In 1602 , George Waymouth , in the same little Discovery that Hudson now commanded , had sailed 300 miles up the strait before his frightened men turned the ship back . 
Hudson now proposed to sail all the way through and test the seas beyond for the long-sought waterway . 
Even Hudson , experienced in Arctic sailing and determined as he was , must have had qualms as he slid down the Thames . 
Ahead were perilous , ice-filled waters . 
On previous voyages , it had been in precisely such dangerous situations that he had failed as a leader and captain . 
On the second voyage , he had turned back at the frozen island of Novaya Zemlya and meekly given the crew a certificate stating that he did so of his own free will -- which was obviously not the case . 
On the third voyage , a near-mutiny rising from a quarrel between Dutch and English crew members on the Half Moon had almost forced him to head the ship back to Amsterdam in Mid-Atlantic . 
Worse , his present crew included five men who had sailed with him before . 
Of only one could he be sure -- young John Hudson , his second son . 
The mate , Robert Juet , who had kept the journal on the Half Moon , was experienced -- but he was a bitter old man , ready to complain or desert at any opportunity . 
Philip Staffe , the ship 's carpenter , was a good worker , but perversely independent . 
Arnold Lodley and Michael Perse were like the rest -- lukewarm , ready to swing against Hudson in a crisis . 
But men willing to sail at all into waters where wooden ships could be crushed like eggs were hard to find . 
Hudson knew he had to use these men as long as he remained an explorer . 
And he refused to be anything else . 
It is believed that Hudson was related to other seafaring men of the Muscovy Company and was trained on company ships . 
He was a Londoner , married , with three sons . 
( The common misconception that he was Dutch and that his first name was Hendrik stem from Dutch documents of his third voyage . 
) In 1610 , Hudson was probably in his early forties , a good navigator , a stubborn voyager , but otherwise fatally unsuited to his chosen profession . 
Hudson 's first error of the fourth voyage occurred only a few miles down the Thames . 
There at the river 's edge waited one Henry Greene , whom Hudson listed as a " clerk " . 
Greene was in actuality a young ruffian from Kent , who had broken with his parents in order to keep the company he preferred -- pimps , panders and whores . 
He was not the sort of sailor Hudson wanted his backers to see on board and he had Greene wait at Gravesend , where the Discovery picked him up . 
For the first three weeks , the ship skirted up the east coast of Great Britain , then turned westward . 
On May 11 , she reached Iceland . 
Poor winds and fog locked her up in a harbor the crew called " Lousie Bay " . 
The subsequent two-weeks wait made the crew quarrelsome . 
With Hudson looking on , his protege Greene picked a fight with the ship 's surgeon , Edward Wilson . 
The issue was settled on shore , Greene winning and Wilson remaining ashore , determined to catch the next fishing boat back to England . 
With difficulty , Hudson persuaded him to rejoin the ship , and they sailed from Iceland . 
Early in June , the Discovery passed " Desolation " ( southern Greenland ) and in mid-June entered the " Furious Overfall " . 
Floating ice bore down from the north and west . 
Fog hung over the route constantly . 
Turbulent tides rose as much as fifty feet . 
The ship 's compass was useless because of the nearness of the magnetic North Pole . 
As the bergs grew larger , Hudson was forced to turn south into what is now Ungava Bay , an inlet of the Great Strait . 
After finding that its coasts led nowhere , however , he turned north again , toward the main , ice-filled passageway -- and the crew , at first uneasy , then frightened , rebelled . 
The trouble was at least partly Juet 's doing . 
For weeks he had been saying that Hudson 's idea of sailing through to Java was absurd . 
The great , crushing ice masses coming into view made him sound like the voice of pure reason . 
A group of sailors announced to Hudson that they would sail no farther . 
Instead of quelling the dissension , as many captains of the era would have done ( Sir Francis Drake lopped a man 's head off under similar circumstances ) , Hudson decided to be reasonable . 
He went to his cabin and emerged carrying a large chart , which he set up in view of the crew . 
Patiently , he explained what he knew about their course and their objectives . 
When Hudson had finished , the " town meeting " broke down into a general , wordy argument . 
One man remarked that if he had a hundred pounds , he would give ninety of them to be back in England . 
Up spoke carpenter Staffe , who said he would n't give ten pounds to be home . 
The statement was effective . 
The meeting broke up . 
Hudson was free to sail on . 
All through July the Discovery picked her way along the 450-mile-long strait , avoiding ice and rocky islands . 
On August 3 , two massive headlands reared out of the mists -- great gateways never before , so far as Hudson knew , seen by Europeans . 
To starboard was a cape a thousand feet high , patched with ice and snow , populated by thousands of screaming sea birds . 
To port was a point 200 feet high rising behind to a precipice of 2,000 feet . 
Hudson named the capes Digges and Wolstenholme , for two of his backers . 
Hudson pointed the Discovery down the east coast of the newly discovered sea ( now called Hudson Bay ) , confident he was on his way to the warm waters of the Pacific . 
After three weeks ' swift sailing , however , the ship entered an area of shallow marshes and river deltas . 
The ship halted . 
The great " sea to the westwards " was a dead end . 
This must have been Hudson 's blackest discovery . 
For he seemed to sense at once that before him was no South Sea , but the solid bulk of the North American continent . 
This was the bitter end , and Hudson seemed to know he was destined to failure . 
Feverishly , he tried to brush away this intuition . 
North and south , east and west , back and forth he sailed in the land-locked bay , plowing furiously forward until land appeared , then turning to repeat the process , day after day , week after week . 
Hundreds of miles to the north , the route back to England through the " Furious Overfall " was again filling with ice . 
The men were at first puzzled , then angered by the aimless tacking . 
Once more , Juet 's complaints were the loudest . 
Hudson 's reply was to accuse the mate of disloyalty . 
Juet demanded that Hudson prove his charges in an open trial . 
The trial was held September 10 . 
Hudson , presiding , heard Juet 's defense , then called for testimony from crew members . 
Juet had made plentiful enemies , several men stepped forward . 
Hands on Bible , seaman Lodley and carpenter Staffe swore that Juet had tried to persuade them to keep muskets and swords in their cabins . 
Cook Bennett Mathues said Juet had predicted bloodshed on the ship . 
Others added that Juet had wanted to turn the ship homeward . 
Hudson deposed Juet and cut his pay . 
The new mate was Robert Bylot , talented but inexperienced . 
There were other shifts and pay cuts according to the way individuals had conducted themselves . 
The important result , however , was that Juet and Francis Clemens , the deposed boatswain , became Hudson 's sworn enemies . 
As Hudson resumed his desperate criss-crossing of the little bay , every incident lessened the crew 's respect for him . 
Once , after the Discovery lay for a week in rough weather , Hudson ordered the anchor raised before the sea had calmed . 
Just as it was being hauled inboard , a sea hit the ship . 
Michael Butt and Adame Moore were thrown off the capstan and badly injured . 
The anchor cable would have been lost overboard , but Philip Staffe was on hand to sever it with his axe . 
