The Bishop of Gloucester described the elder Thomas in 1577 as the richest recusant in his diocese , worth five hundred pounds a year in lands and goods . 
When Quiney and William Parsons wrote to Greville in 1593 asking his consent in the election for bailiff , they sent the letter to Mr. William Sawnders , attendant on the worshipful Mr. Thomas Bushell at Marston . 
Mr. Bushell was mentioned in 1602 in the will of Joyce Hobday , widow of a Stratford glover . 
Thomas the elder married twice , had seventeen children , and died in 1615 . 
His daughter Elinor married Quiney 's son Adrian in 1613 , and his son Henry married Mary Lane of Stratford in 1609 . 
His son Thomas , aged fifteen when he entered Oxford in 1582 , married as his first wife Margaret , sister of Sir Edward Greville . 
Bridges , a son by his second wife , was christened at Pebworth in 1607 , but Thomas the younger was living at Packwood two years later and sold Broad Marston manor in 1622 . 
A third Thomas Bushell ( 1594-1674 ) , " much loved " by Bacon , called himself " The Superlative Prodigall " in The First Part of Youths Errors ( 1628 ) and became an expert on silver mines and on the art of running into debt . 
Edward Greville , born about 1565 , had inherited Milcote on the execution of his father Lodowick for murder in 1589 . 
He refused his consent to the election of Quiney as bailiff in 1592 , but gave it at the request of the recorder , his cousin Sir Fulke Greville . 
The corporation entertained him for dinner at Quiney 's house in 15967 , with wine and sugar sent by the bailiff , Sturley . 
At Milcote on November 3 , 1597 , the aldermen asked him to support their petition for a new charter . 
Sturley wrote to Quiney that Sir Edward " gave his allowance and liking thereof , and affied unto us his best endeavour , so that his rights be preserved " , and that " Sir Edward saith we shall not be at any fault for money for prosecuting the cause , for himself will procure it and lay it down for us for the time " . 
Greville proposed Quiney as the fittest man " for the following of the cause and to attend him in the matter " , and at his suggestion the corporation allowed Quiney two shillings a day . 
" If you can firmly make the good knight sure to pleasure our Corporation " , Sturley wrote , " besides that ordinary allowance for your diet you shall have 20 for recompence " . 
In his letter mentioning Shakespeare on January 24 , 15978 , Sturley asked Quiney especially that " theare might ( be ) bi Sir Ed . 
Grev. some meanes made to the Knightes of the Parliament for an ease and discharge of such taxes and subsedies wherewith our towne is like to be charged , and I assure u I am in great feare and doubte bi no meanes hable to paie . 
Sir Ed. Gre. is gonne to Brestowe and from thence to Lond. as I heare , who verie well knoweth our estates and wil be willinge to do us ani good " . 
The knights for Warwickshire in this parliament , which ended its session on February 9 , were Fulke Greville ( the poet ) and William Combe of Warwick , as Fulke Greville and Edward Greville had been in 1593 . 
The corporation voted on September 27 , 1598 , that Quiney should ride to London about the suit to Sir John Fortescue , chancellor of the Exchequer , for discharging of the tax and subsidy . 
He had been in London for several weeks when he wrote to Shakespeare on October 25 . 
Sturley on November 4 answered a letter from Quiney written on October 25 which imported , wrote Sturley , " that our countriman Mr. Wm. Shak. would procure us monei : which I will like of as I shall heare when , wheare & howe : and I prai let not go that occasion if it mai sort to ani indifferent condicions . 
Allso that if monei might be had for 30 or 40 a lease & might be procured " . 
Sturley quoted Quiney as having written on November 1 that if he had " more monei presente much might be done to obtaine our Charter enlargd , ij faires more , with tole of corne , bestes , and sheepe , and a matter of more valewe then all that " . 
Sturley thought that this matter might be " the rest of the tithes and the College houses and landes in our towne " . 
He suggested offering half to Sir Edward , fearing lest " he shall thinke it to good for us and procure it for himselfe , as he served us the last time " . 
This refers to what had happened after the Earl of Warwick died in 1590 , when the town petitioned Burghley for the right to name the vicar and schoolmaster and other privileges but Greville bought the lordship for himself . 
Sturley 's allusion probably explains why Greville took out the patent in the names of Best and Wells , for Sir Anthony Ashley described Best as " a scrivener within Temple Bar , that deals in many matters for my L. Essex " through Sir Gelly Merrick , especially in " causes that he would not be known of " . 
Adrian Quiney wrote to his son Richard on October 29 and again perhaps the next day , since the bearer of the letter , the bailiff , was expected to reach London on November 1 . 
In his second letter the old mercer advised his son " to bye some such warys as yow may selle presentlye with profet . 
Yff yow bargen with Wm. Sha. ( so in the MS ) or Receave money ther or brynge your money home yow maye see howe knite stockynges be sold ther ys gret byinge of them at Aysshom . 
Wherefore I thynke yow maye doo good yff yow can have money " . 
This seems to refer , not to the loan Richard had asked for , but to a proposed bargain with Shakespeare . 
Richard Quiney the younger , a schoolboy of eleven , wrote a letter in Latin asking his father to buy copybooks ( " chartaceos libellos ) " ) for him and his brother . 
His mother Bess , who could not write herself , reminded her husband through Sturley to buy the apron he had promised her and " a suite of hattes for 5 boies the yongst lined & trimmed with silke " ( for John , only a year old ) . 
A letter signed " Isabell Bardall " entreated " Good Cozen " Quiney to find her stepson Adrian , son of George Bardell , a place in London with some handicraftsman . 
William Parsons and William Walford , drapers , asked Quiney to see to business matters in London . 
Daniel Baker deluged his " Unckle Quyne " with requests to pay money for him to drapers in Watling Street and at the Two Cats in Canning Street . 
His letter of October 26 named two of the men about whom Quiney had written to Shakespeare the day before . 
Baker wrote : " I tooke order with Sr . 
E. Grevile for the payment of Ceartaine monei beefore his going towardes London . 
& synce I did write unto him to dessier him to paie 10 for mee which standeth mee greatly uppon to have paide . 
& 20 more Mr. Peeter Rowswell tooke order with his master to paie for mee " . 
He asked Quiney to find out whether the money had been paid and , if not , to send to the lodging of Sir Edward and entreat him to pay what he owed . 
Baker added : " I pray you delivre these inclosed Letters And Comend mee to Mr. Rychard Mytton whoe I know will ffreind mee for the payment of this monei " . 
Further letters in November mention that Sir Edward paid forty pounds . 
Stratford 's petition to the queen declared that two great fires had burnt two hundred houses in the town , with household goods , to the value of twelve thousand pounds . 
The chancellor of the Exchequer wrote on the petition : " in myn opinion it is very resonable and conscionable for hir maiestie to graunt in relief of this towne twise afflicted and almost wasted by fire " . 
The queen agreed on December 17 , a warrant was signed on January 27 , and the Exchequer paid Quiney his expenses on February 27 , 15989 . 
He listed what he had spent for " My own diet in London eighteen weeks , in which I was sick a month ; ; my mare at coming up 14 days ; ; another I bought there to bring me home 7 weeks ; ; and I was six days going thither and coming homewards ; ; all which cost me at the least 20 pounds " . 
He was allowed forty-four pounds in all , including fees to the masters of requests , Mr. Fanshawe of the Exchequer , the solicitor general , and other officials and their clerks . 
If he borrowed money from Shakespeare or with his help , he would now have been able to repay the loan . 
Since more is known about Quiney than about any other acquaintance of Shakespeare in Stratford , his career may be followed to its sudden end in 1602 . 
During 1598 and 1599 he made " manye Guiftes of myne owne provision bestowed uppon Cowrtiers & others for the better effectinge of our suites in hande " . 
He was in London " searching records for our town 's causes " in 1600 with young Henry Sturley , the assistant schoolmaster . 
When Sir Edward Greville enclosed the town commons on the Bancroft , Quiney and others leveled his hedges on January 21 , 16001 , and were charged with riot by Sir Edward . 
He also sued them for taking toll of grain at their market . 
Accompanied by " Master Greene our solicitor " ( Thomas Greene of the Middle Temple , Shakespeare 's " cousin " ) , Quiney tried to consult Sir Edward Coke , attorney general , and gave money to a clerk and a doorkeeper " that we might have access to their master for his counsel butt colde nott have him att Leasure by the reason of thees trobles " ( the Essex rising on February 8 ) . 
He set down that " I gave Mr. Greene a pynte of muskadell and a roll of bread that last morning I went to have his company to Master Attorney " . 
After returning Stratford he drew up a defense of the town 's right to toll corn and the office of collecting it , and his list of suggested witnesses included his father and Shakespeare 's father . 
No one , he wrote , took any corn of Greville 's , for his bailiff of husbandry " swore a greate oathe thatt who soe came to put hys hande into hys sackes for anye corne shuld leave hys hande behynde hym " . 
Quiney was in London again in June , 1601 , and in November , when he rode up , as Shakespeare must often have done , by way of Oxford , High Wycombe , and Uxbridge , and home through Aylesbury and Banbury . 
After Quiney was elected bailiff in September , 1601 , without Greville 's approval , Greene wrote him that Coke had promised to be of counsel for Stratford and had advised " that the office of bayly may be exercised as it is taken upon you , ( Sr . 
Edwardes his consent not beinge hadd to the swearinge of you ) " . 
Asked by the townsmen to cease his suit , Greville had answered that " hytt shulde coste hym 500 first & sayed it must be tried ether before my Lorde Anderson in the countrey or his uncle Ffortescue in the exchequer with whom he colde more prevaile then we " . 
The corporation proposed Chief Justice Anderson for an arbiter , sending him a gift of sack and claret . 
Lady Greville , daughter of the late Lord Chancellor Bromley and niece of Sir John Fortescue , was offered twenty pounds by the townsmen to make peace ; ; she " labored & thought she shuld effecte " it but her husband said that " we shuld wynne it by the sworde " . 
His servant Robin Whitney threatened Quiney , who had Whitney bound to " the good abaringe " to keep the peace . 
A report of Sr . 
Edw Grevyles minaces to the Baileefe Aldermen & Burgesses of Stratforde " tells how Quiney was injured by Greville 's men : " in the tyme Mr. Ryc' Quyney was bayleefe ther came some of them whoe beinge druncke fell to braweling in ther host s howse wher thei druncke & drewe ther dagers uppon the hoste : att a faier tyme the Baileefe being late abroade to see the towne in order & comminge by in hurley burley came into the howse & commawnded the peace to be kept butt colde nott prevayle & in hys endevor to sticle the brawle had his heade grevouselye brooken by one of hys ( Greville 's ) men whom nether hymselfe ( Greville ) punnished nor wolde suffer to be punnished but with a shewe to turne them awaye & enterteyned agayne " . 
