Let us see just how typical Krim is . 
He is New York-born and Jewish . 
He spent one year at the University of North Carolina because Thomas Wolfe went there . 
He returned to New York to work for The New Yorker , to edit a Western pulp , to " duck the war in the OWI " , to write publicity for Paramount Pictures and commentary for a newsreel , then he began his career as critic for various magazines . 
Now he has abandoned all that to be A Writer . 
I do not want to quibble about typicality ; ; in a certain sense , one manner of experience will be typical of any given group while another will not . 
But I 've got news for Krim : he 's not typical , he 's pretty special . 
His may typify a certain kind of postwar New York experience , but his experience is certainly not typical of his " generation 's " . 
In any case , who ever thought that New York is typical of anything ? ? 
Men of Krim 's age , aspirations , and level of sophistication were typically involved in politics before the war . 
They did not " duck the war " but they fought in it , however reluctantly ; ; they sweated out some kind of formal education ; ; they read widely and eclectically ; ; they did not fall into pseudo-glamorous jobs on pseudo-glamorous magazines , but they did whatever nasty thing they could get in order to eat ; ; they found out who they were and what they could do , then within the limits of their talent they did it . 
They did not worry about " experience " , because experience thrust itself upon them . 
And they traveled out of New York . 
Only a native New Yorker could believe that New York is now or ever was a literary center . 
It is a publishing and public relations center , but these very facts prevent it from being a literary center because writers dislike provincialism and untruth . 
Krim 's typicality consists only in his New Yorker 's view that New York is the world ; ; he displays what outlanders call the New York mind , a state that the subject is necessarily unable to perceive in himself . 
The New York mind is two parts abstraction and one part misinformation about the rest of the country and in fact the world . 
In his fulminating against the literary world , Krim is really struggling with the New Yorker in himself , but it 's a losing battle . 
Closely related to his illusions about his typicality is Krim 's complicated feeling about his Jewishness . 
He writes , " Most of my friends and I were Jewish ; ; we were also literary ; ; the combination of the Jewish intellectual tradition and the sensibility needed to be a writer created in my circle the most potent and incredible intellectual-literary ambition I have ever seen or could ever have imagined . 
Within themselves , just as people , my friends were often tortured and unappeasably bitter about being the offspring of this unhappily unique-ingrown-screwedup breed ; ; their reading and thinking gave an extension to their normal blushes about appearing ' Jewish ' in subway , bus , racetrack , movie house , any of the public places that used to make the Jew of my generation self-conscious ( heavy thinkers walking across Seventh Avenue without their glasses on , willing to dare the trucks as long as they did n't look like the ikey-kikey caricature of the Yiddish intellectual ) . 
" At other points in his narrative , Krim associates Jewishness with unappeasable literary ambition , with abstraction , with his personal turning aside from the good , the true , and the beautiful of fiction in the manner of James T. Farrell to the international , the false , and the inflated . 
Krim says , in short , that he is a suffering Jew . 
The only possible answer to that is , I am a suffering Franco-Irishman . 
We all love to suffer , but some of us love to suffer more than others . 
Had Krim gone farther from New York than Chapel Hill , he might have discovered that large numbers of American Jews do not find his New York version of the Jews ' lot remotely recognizable . 
More important is the simple human point that all men suffer , and that it is a kind of anthropological-religious pride on the part of the Jew to believe that his suffering is more poignant than mine or anyone else 's . 
This is not to deny the existence of pogroms and ghettos , but only to assert that these horrors have had an effect on the nerves of people who did not experience them , that among the various side effects is the local hysteria of Jewish writers and intellectuals who cry out from confusion , which they call oppression and pain . 
In their stupidity and arrogance they believe they are called upon to remind the gentile continually of pogroms and ghettos . 
Some of us have imagination and sensibility too . 
Finally , there is the undeniable fact that some of the finest American fiction is being written by Jews , but it is not Jewish fiction ; ; Saul Bellow and Bernard Malamud , through intellectual toughness , perception , through experience in fact , have obviously liberated themselves from any sentimental Krim self-indulgence they might have been tempted to . 
Krim 's main attack is upon the aesthetic and the publishing apparatus of American literary culture in our day . 
Krim was able to get an advance for a novel , and time and opportunity to write at Yaddo , but it was no good . 
" I had natural sock " , he says , ' as a storyteller and was precociously good at description , dialogue , and most of the other staples of the fiction-writer 's trade but I was bugged by a mammoth complex of thoughts and feelings that prevented me from doing more than just diddling the surface of sustained fiction-writing " . 
And again , " how can you write when you have n't yet read ' Bartleby The Scrivener ' " ? ? 
Krim came to believe that " the novel as a form had outlived its vital meaning " . 
His " articulate Jewish friends " convinced him that education ( read " reading " ) was " a must " . 
He moved in a " highly intellectual " group in Greenwich Village in the late forties , becoming " internationalized " overnight . 
Then followed a period in which he wrote reviews for The New York Times Book Review , The Commonweal , Commentary , had a small piece in Partisan Review , and moved on to Hudson , The Village Voice , and Exodus . 
The work for Commonweal was more satisfying than work for Commentary " because of the staff 's tiptoeing fear of making a booboo " . 
Commentary was a mere suburb of Partisan Review , the arch-enemy . 
Both magazines were " rigid with reactionary what-will-T . 
S. Eliot-or-Martin Buber-think ? ? 
fear . 
" Partisan has failed , Krim says , for being " snob-clannish , overcerebral , Europeanish , aristocratically alienated " from the U.S. . It was " the creation of a monstrous historical period wherein it thought it had to synthesize literature and politics and avant-garde art of every kind with its writers crazily trying to outdo each other in Spenglerian inclusiveness . 
" Kenyon , Sewanee , and Hudson operated in an " Anglo-Protestant New Critical chill " ; ; their example caused Krim and his friends to put on " Englishy airs , affect all sorts of impressive scholarship and social-register unnaturalness in order to slip through their narrow transoms and get into their pages " . 
Qui s'excuse s'accuse , as the French Jewish intellectuals used to say . 
Through all this raving , Krim is performing a traditional and by now boring rite , the attack on intelligence , upon the largely successful attempt of the magazines he castigates to liberate American writing from local color and other varieties of romantic corn . 
God knows that Partisan and the rest often were , and remain , guilty of intellectual flatulence . 
Sociological jargon , Germano-Slavic approximations to English , third-rate but modish fiction , and outrages to common sense have often disfigured Partisan , and in lesser degree , the other magazines on the list . 
What Krim ignores , in his contempt for history and for accuracy , is that these magazines , Partisan foremost , brought about a genuine revolution in the American mind from the mid-thirties to approximately 1950 . 
The most obvious characteristic of contemporary American writing , apart from the beat nonsense , is its cosmopolitanism . 
The process of cosmopolitanism had begun in earnest about 1912 , but the First War and the depression virtually stalled that process in its tracks . 
Without the good magazines , without their book reviews , their hospitality to European writers , without above all their awareness of literary standards , we might very well have had a generation of Krim 's heroes -- Wolfes , Farrells , Dreisers , and I might add , Sandburgs and Frosts and MacLeishes in verse -- and then where would we be ? ? 
Screwed , stewed , and tattooed , as Krim might say after reading a book about sailors . 
When Partisan and Kenyon set up shop , Mencken was still accepted as an arbiter of taste ( remember Hergesheimer ? ? 
) , George Jean Nathan and Alexander Woollcott were honored in odd quarters , and the whole Booth Tarkington , Willa Catheter ( sic ) , ) Pearl , Buck , , Amy Lowell , William Lyon Phelps atmosphere lay thick as Los Angeles smog over , the , country -- . 
Politics , economics , sociology -- the entire area of life that lies " between " -- literature and what Krim calls experience -- urgently needed to be dug into . 
The universities certainly were not doing it , nor were the popular magazines of the day . 
This Partisan above all did ; ; if it had never printed a word of literature its contribution to the politico-sociological area would still be historic . 
But it did print good verse and good fiction . 
If , the editors sometimes , dozed and printed pretentious , New , York-mind , dross , they , also printed , Malraux , , Silone , , Chiaromonte , , Gide , Bellow , , Robert Lowell , Francis Fergusson , Mary McCarthy , Delmore Schwartz , Mailer , Elizabeth Hardwick , Eleanor Clark , , and a host of , other good writers . 
Partisan Review and the other literary magazines helped to educate , in the best sense , an entire generation . 
That these magazines also deluded the Krims of the world is unfortunate but inevitable . 
It is a fact of life that magazines are edited by groups : they have to be or they would n't be published at all . 
And it is also a fact of life that there will always ( be youngish half-educated people around , who will be dazzled by the glitter of what looks like a literary movement . 
( there are no ) literary movements , " there are only writers doing their work . 
Literary movements are the " , creation of pimps who live off writers . 
) when Krim says mine was as severe a critical-intellectual , environment as can be imagined , he is off his rocker . 
He indicates that he has none of the , disciplines that criticism requires , including education ; ; the result was his inevitable bedazzlement through , ignorance . 
He was n't being , " educated in " those Village bull-sessions , as he claims . 
No one was ever educated through bull-sessions in anything other than , to quote him again , " perfumed bullshit . 
Only " a New York hick would expect to find the literary life in Greenwich Village , at any point , later than Walt Whitman 's day . 
The highly intellectual minds that Krim says he encountered , in the Village did their work in spite of , , not because of , any Village atmosphere . 
But Krim 's complaint is important because not only in New York , but in other cities and in universities throughout this country , young and not , so young men at this moment are being bedazzled by half-digested ideas . 
Those who have quality will outgrow " the experience ; ; the " , rest will turn beat , or into dentists , or into beat , dentists . 
For the sad truth is that while one might write well without having read Bartleby The Scrivener , one is more likely , to write well if one has " read it , and much else . 
The most appalling aspect of Krim 's piece is his reflection of the beat aesthetic . 
He mentions the beats only once " , when he refers to their having revived through mere power and abandonment and the unwillingness to , commit death in life some idea of a decent equivalent between verbal expression and actual experience , , but the entire narrative , is written in the tiresome vocabulary " of " that lost " and " dying cause , " and in the " " sprung syntax that is supposed to supplant , our mother , tongue . 
Krim 's ( aesthetic combines anti-intellectualism , conscious and unconscious naivete ) " , and a winsome reliance " upon the " , natural and upon experience . 
Ideas are the thruway to nowhere . 
My " touchstones , had , been strictly " literature and , humanly enough , American literature ( because that was what I wanted to write ) . 
He alludes to something called direct writing , and he finds that criticism gets in the way of his truer , realer , imaginative bounce . 
