There had been signs and portents like the regular toppling over and defacing of the bust of Lauro Di Bosis near the Villa Lante and in the Gianicolo . 
Something was happening all right , slowly it is true , but you could feel it . 
The Italians felt it . 
Little things . 
An Italian poet had noticed plainclothes policemen lounging around the area of Quirinal Palace , the first time since the war . 
At least they had n't stepped up and asked to see papers in the hated , flat , dialect mispronunciation of Mussolini 's home district -- Dogumenti , per favore . 
But , who knew , that might be coming one of these days . 
There were other Italians who still bore scars they had earned in police station basements , resisting . 
They laughed and , true to national form and manners , never talked long or solemnly on any subject at all , but some of them worried out loud about short memories and ghosts . 
We saw Giuseppe Berto at a party once in a while , tall , lean , nervous and handsome , and , in our opinion , the best novelist of them all except Pavese , and Pavese is dead . 
Berto 's The Sky Is Red had been a small masterpiece and in its special way the best book to come out of the war . 
Now he was married to a beautiful girl , had a small son , and lived in an expensive apartment and worked for the movies . 
On his desk was a slowly accumulating treatment and script of The Count Of Monte Cristo . 
On his bookshelves were some of the latest American novels , including Bellow 's Seize The Day , but he had n't read them ( they were sent by American publishers ) and was n't especially interested in what the American writers were up to . 
He was interested in Robert Musil 's The Man Without Qualities . 
So were a lot of other people . 
He was interested in Italo Svevo . 
He was thinking his way into a new novel , a big one , one that people had been waiting for . 
It was going to be hard going all the way because he had n't written seriously for a while , except for a few stories , was tired of the old method of realismo he had so successfully used in The Sky Is Red . 
This one was going to be different . 
He had bought a little piece of property down along the coast of the hard country of Calabria that he knew so well . 
He was going to do one or two more films for cash and then chuck it all , leave Rome and its intellectual cliques and money-fed life , go back to Calabria . 
Berto seemed worried , too . 
He knew all about it and had put it down in journal form in The War In A Black Shirt , a wonderful book not , for some strange reason , published in the U.S. . He knew all about the appeal of a black shirt and jackboots to a poor , southern , peasant boy . 
He knew all about the infection and the fever , and , too , the moment of realization when he saw for himself , threw up his hands and quit , ended the war as a prisoner in Texas . 
Berto knew all about Fascism . 
So did his friend , the young novelist Rimanelli . 
Rimanelli is tough and square-built and adventurous , says what he thinks . 
He had put it down in a war novel , The Day Of The Lion . 
These people were not talking much about it , but you , a foreigner , sensed their apprehension and disappointment . 
So there we were talking around and about it . 
The English lady said she had to go to Vienna for a while . 
It was a pity because she had planned to lay a wreath at the foot of the Garibaldi statue , towering over Rome in spectacular benediction from the highpoint of the Gianicolo . 
Around that statue in the green park where children play and lovers walk in twos and there is a glowing view of the whole city , in that park are the rows of marble busts of Garibaldi 's fallen men , the ones who one day rushed out of the Porta San Pancrazio and , under fire all the way , up the long , straight narrow lane to take , then lose the high ground of the Villa Doria Pamphili . 
When they lost it , the French artillery moved in , and that was the end for Garibaldi that time , on 30 April 1849 . 
Once out of the gate they had charged straight up the narrow lane . 
We had walked it many times and shivered , figuring what a fish barrel it had been for the French . 
Now the park is filled with marble busts and all the streets in the immediate area have the full and proper names of the men who fell . 
We were at a party once and heard an idealistic young European call that awful charge glorious . 
Our companion was a huge , plain-spoken American sculptor who had been a sixteen-year-old rifleman all across France in 1944 . 
He said it was stupid butchery to order men to make a charge like that , no matter who gave the order and what for . 
" Oh , it would be butchery all right " , the European said . 
" We would see it that way , but it was glorious then . 
It was the last time in history anybody could do something gloriously like that " . 
I thought : Who is older now ? ? 
Old world and new world . 
The sculptor looked at him , bugeyed and amazed , angry . 
He had made an assault once with 180 men . 
It was a picked assault company . 
They went up against an SS unit of comparable size , over a little rise of ground , over an open field . 
Object -- a village crossroads . 
They made it , killed every last one of the Krauts , took the village on schedule . 
When it was over , eight of his company were still alive and all eight were wounded . 
The whole thing , from the moment when they jumped heavily off the trucks , spread out and moved into position just behind the cover of that slight rise of ground and then jumped off , took maybe between twenty and thirty minutes . 
The sculptor looked at him , let the color drain out of his face , grinned , and looked down into his drink , a bad Martini made with raw Italian gin . 
" Bullshit " , he said softly . 
" Excuse me " , the European said . 
" I am not familiar with the expression " . 
The apartment where we were talking that afternoon in March faced onto the street Garibaldi 's men had charged up and along . 
Across the way from the apartment building is a ruined house , shot to hell that day in 1849 , and left that way as a memorial . 
There is a bronze wreath on the wall . 
Like everything else in Rome , ruins and monuments alike , that house is lived in . 
I have seen diapers strung across the ruined roof . 
The English lady really wanted to put a wreath on the Garibaldi monument on the 30th of April . 
She had her reasons for this . 
For one thing , there was n't going to be any ceremony at all this year . 
There were a few reasons for that , too : Garibaldi had been taken up and exploited by the Communists nowadays . 
Therefore the government wanted no part of him . 
( It is sort of as if our government should decide to disown Washington or Lincoln for the same reason . 
) And then there were ecclesiastical matters , the matter of Garibaldi 's anti-clericalism . 
There was a new Pope and the Vatican was making itself heard and felt these days . 
As it happens the English lady is a good Catholic herself , but of more liberal political persuasion . 
Nothing was going to be done this year to celebrate Garibaldi 's bold and unsuccessful defense of Rome . 
All that the English lady wanted to do was to walk up to the monument and lay a wreath at its base . 
This would show that somebody , even a foreigner living in Rome , cared . 
And then there were other things . 
Some of the marble busts in the park are of young Englishmen who fought and died for Garibaldi . 
She also mentioned leaving a little bunch of flowers at the bust of Lauro Di Bosis . 
It is hard for me to know how I feel about Lauro Di Bosis . 
I suffer from mixed feelings . 
He was a well-to-do , handsome , and sensitive young poet . 
His bust shows an intense , mustached , fine-featured face . 
He flew over Rome one day during the early days of Mussolini and scattered leaflets over the city , denouncing the Fascists . 
He was never heard of again . 
He is thought either to have been killed by the Fascists as soon as he landed or to have killed himself by flying out to sea and crashing his plane . 
He was , thus , an early and spectacular victim . 
And there is something so wonderfully romantic about it all . 
He really did n't know how to fly . 
He had crashed on takeoff once before . 
Gossip had it ( for gossip is the soul of Rome ) that a famous American dancer of the time had paid for both the planes . 
It was absurd and dramatic . 
It is remembered and has been commemorated by a bust in a park and a square in the city which was renamed Piazzo Lauro Di Bosis after the war . 
Most Romans , even some postmen , know it by the old name . 
Faced with a gesture like Di Bosis ' , I find usually that my sentiments are closer to those of my sculptor friend . 
The things that happened in police station basements were dirty , grubby , and most often anonymous . 
No poetry , no airplanes , no dancers . 
That is how the real routine of resistance goes on , and its strength is directly proportionate to the number of insignificant people who can let themselves be taken to pieces , piece by piece , without quitting . 
It is an ugly business and there are few , if any , wreaths for them . 
I keep thinking of a young woman I knew during the Occupation in Austria . 
She was from Prague . 
She had been picked up by the Russians , questioned in connection with some pamphlets , sentenced to life imprisonment for espionage . 
She escaped , crawled through the usual mine fields , under barbed wire , was shot at , swam a river , and we finally picked her up in Linz . 
She showed us what had happened to her . 
No airplanes , no Nathan Hale statements . 
Just no spot , not even a dimesize spot , on her whole body that was n't bruised , bruise on top of bruise , from beatings . 
I understand very well about Lauro Di Bosis and how his action is symbolic . 
The trouble is that like many symbols it does n't seem a very realistic one . 
The English lady wanted to pay tribute to Garibaldi and to Lauro Di Bosis , but she was n't going to be here to do it . 
Were any of us interested enough in the idea to do it for her , by proxy so to speak ? ? 
There was a pretty thorough silence at that point . 
My spoon stirring coffee , banging against the side of the cup , sounded as loud as a bell . 
I thought : What the hell ? ? 
Why not ? ? 
I said I would do it for her . 
I had some reasons , too . 
I admire the English lady . 
I hate embarrassing silences and have been known to make a fool out of myself just to prevent one . 
I also had and have feelings about Garibaldi . 
Like every Southerner I ca n't escape the romantic tradition of brave defeats , forlorn lost causes . 
Though Garibaldi 's fight was small shakes compared to Pickett 's Charge -- which , like all Southerners , I view in almost Miltonic terms , fallen angels , etc . 
-- I associated the two . 
And to top it all I am often sentimental on purpose , trying to prove to myself that I am not afraid of sentiment . 
So much for all that . 
The English lady was pleased and enthusiastic . 
She gave me the names of some people who would surely help pay for the flowers and might even march up to the monument with me . 
The idea of the march pleased her . 
Maybe twenty , thirty , fifty . 
Maybe I could call Rimanelli at the magazine Rottosei where he worked . 
