Even Hemingway , for all his efforts to formulate a naturalistic morality in The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell To Arms never maintained that sex was all . 
Hemingway 's fiction is supported by a " moral " backbone and in its search for ultimate meaning hints at a religious dimension . 
And D.H. Lawrence , in Fantasia Of The Unconscious , protested vehemently against the overestimation of the sexual motive . 
Though sex in some form or other enters into all human activity and it was a good thing that Freud emphasized this aspect of human nature , it is fantastic to explain everything in terms of sex . 
" All is not sex " , declared Lawrence . 
Man is not confined to one outlet for his vital energy . 
The creative urge , for example , transcends the body and the self . 
But for the beat generation all is sex . 
Nothing is more revealing of the way of life and literary aspirations of this group than their attitude toward sex . 
For the beatnik , like the hipster , is in opposition to a society that is based on the repression of the sex instinct . 
He has elevated sex -- not Eros or libido but pure , spontaneous , uninhibited sex -- to the rank of the godhead ; ; it is Astarte , Ishtar , Venus , Yahwe , Dionysus , Christ , the mysterious and divine orgone energy flowing through the body of the universe . 
Jazz is sex , marijuana is a stimulus to sex , the beat tempo is adjusted to the orgiastic release of the sexual impulse . 
Lawrence Lipton , in The Holy Barbarians , stresses that for the beat generation sex is more than a source of pleasure ; ; it is a mystique , and their private language is rich in the multivalent ambiguities of sexual reference so that they dwell in a sexualized universe of discourse . 
The singular uncompromising force of their revolt against the cult of restraint is illustrated by their refusal to dance in a public place . 
The dance is but a disguised ritual for the expression of ungratified sexual desire . 
For this reason , too , their language is more forthright and earthy . 
The beatniks crave a sexual experience in which their whole being participates . 
It is therefore not surprising that they resist the lure of marriage and the trap of domesticity , for like cats they are determined not to tame their sexual energy . 
They withdraw to the underground of the slums where they can defy the precepts of legalized propriety . 
Unlike the heroes and flappers of the lost generation , they disdain the art of " necking " and " petting " . 
That is reserved for the squares . 
If they avoid the use of the pungent , outlawed four-letter word it is because it is taboo ; ; it is sacred . 
As Lipton , the prophet of the beat generation , declares : " In the sexual act , the beat are filled with mana , the divine power . 
This is far from the vulgar , leering sexuality of the middle-class square in heat " . 
This is the Holy Grail these knights of the orgasm pursue , this is the irresistible cosmic urge to which they respond . 
If Wilhelm Reich is the Moses who has led them out of the Egypt of sexual slavery , Dylan Thomas is the poet who offers them the Dionysian dialectic of justification for their indulgence in liquor , marijuana , sex , and jazz . 
In addition , they have been converted to Zen Buddhism , with its glorification of all that is " natural " and mysteriously alive , the sense that everything in the world is flowing . 
Thus , paradoxically , the beat writers resort to " religious " metaphors : they are in search of mana , the spiritual , the numinous , but not anything connected with formal religion . 
What they are after is the beatific vision . 
And Zen Buddhism , though it is extremely difficult to understand how these internal contradictions are reconciled , helps them in their struggle to achieve personal salvation through sexual release . 
The style of life chosen by the beat generation , the rhythm and ritual they have adopted as uniquely their own , is designed to enhance the value of the sexual experience . 
Jazz is good not only because it promotes wholeness but because of its decided sexual effect . 
Jazz is the musical language of sex , the vocabulary of the orgasm ; ; indeed , it is maintained that the sexual element in jazz , by freeing the listener of his inhibitions , can have therapeutic value . 
That is why , the argument runs , the squares are so fearful of jazz and yet perversely fascinated by it . 
Instead of giving themselves spontaneously to the orgiastic release that jazz can give them , they undergo psychoanalysis or flirt with mysticism or turn to prostitutes for satisfaction . 
Thus jazz is transmuted into something holy , the sacred road to integration of being . 
Jazz , like sex , is a mystique . 
It is not a substitute for sex but a dynamic expression of the creative impulse in unfettered man . 
The mystique of sex , combined with marijuana and jazz , is intended to provide a design for living . 
Those who are sexually liberated can become creatively alive and free , their instincts put at the service of the imagination . 
Righteous in their denunciation of all that makes for death , the beat prophets bid all men become cool cats ; ; let them learn to " swing " freely , to let go , to become authentically themselves , and then perhaps civilization will be saved . 
The beatnik , seceding from a society that is fatally afflicted with a deathward drive , is concerned with his personal salvation in the living present . 
If he is the child of nothingness , if he is the predestined victim of an age of atomic wars , then he will consult only his own organic needs and go beyond good and evil . 
He will not curb his instinctual desires but release the energy within him that makes him feel truly and fully alive , even if it is only for this brief moment before the apocalypse of annihilation explodes on earth . 
That is why the members of the beat generation proudly assume the title of the holy barbarians ; ; they will destroy the shrines , temples , museums , and churches of the state that is the implacable enemy of the life they believe in . 
Apart from the categorical imperative they derive from the metaphysics of the orgasm , the only affirmation they are capable of making is that art is their only refuge . 
Their writing , born of their experiments in marijuana and untrammeled sexuality , reflects the extremity of their existential alienation . 
The mind has betrayed them , reason is the foe of life ; ; they will trust only their physical sensations , the wisdom of the body , the holy promptings of the unconscious . 
With lyrical intensity they reveal what they hate , but their faith in love , inspired by the revolutionary rhythms of jazz , culminates in the climax of the orgasm . 
Their work mirrors the mentality of the psychopath , rootless and irresponsible . 
Their rebellion against authoritarian society is not far removed from the violence of revolt characteristic of the juvenile delinquent . 
And the life they lead is undisciplined and for the most part unproductive , even though they make a fetish of devoting themselves to some creative pursuit -- writing , painting , music . 
They are non-conformists on principle . 
When they express themselves it is incandescent hatred that shines forth , the rage of repudiation , the ecstasy of negation . 
It is sex that obsesses them , sex that is at the basis of their aesthetic creed . 
What they discuss with dialectical seriousness is the degree to which sex can inspire the Muse . 
Monogamy is the vice from which the abjectly fearful middle class continue to suffer , whereas the beatnik has the courage to break out of that prison of respectability . 
One girl describes her past , her succession of broken marriages , the abortions she has had and finally confesses that she loves sex and sees no reason why she must justify her passion . 
If it is an honest feeling , then why should she not yield to it ? ? 
" Most often " , she says , " it 's the monogamous relationship that is dishonest " . 
There is nothing holy in wedlock . 
This girl soon drops the bourgeois pyschiatrist who disapproves of her life . 
She finds married life stifling and every prolonged sex relationship unbearably monotonous . 
This confession serves to make clear in part what is behind this sexual revolution : the craving for sensation for its own sake , the need for change , for new experiences . 
Boredom is death . 
In the realm of physical sensations , sex reigns supreme . 
Hence the beatniks sustain themselves on marijuana , jazz , free swinging poetry , exhausting themselves in orgies of sex ; ; some of them are driven over the borderline of sanity and lose contact with reality . 
One beat poet composes a poem , " Lines On A Tijuana John " , which contains a few happy hints for survival . 
The new fact the initiates of this cult have to learn is that they must move toward simplicity . 
The professed mission of this disaffiliated generation is to find a new way of life which they can express in poetry and fiction , but what they produce is unfortunately disordered , nourished solely on the hysteria of negation . 
Who are the creative representatives of this movement ? ? 
Nymphomaniacs , junkies , homosexuals , drug addicts , lesbians , alcoholics , the weak , the frustrated , the irresolute , the despairing , the derelicts and outcasts of society . 
They embrace independent poverty , usually with a " shack-up " partner who will help support them . 
They are full of contempt for the institution of matrimony . 
Their previous legalized marriages do not count , for they hold the laws of the state null and void . 
They feel they are leagued against a hostile , persecutory world , faced with the concerted malevolent opposition of squares and their hirelings , the police . 
This is the rhetoric of righteousness the beatniks use in defending their way of life , their search for wholeness , though their actual existence fails to reach these " religious " heights . 
One beatnik got the woman he was living with so involved in drugs and self-analysis and all-night sessions of sex that she was beginning to crack up . 
What obsessions had she picked up during these long nights of talk ? ? 
Sex as the creative principle of the universe , the secret of primitive religion , the life of myth . 
Everything in the final analysis reduced itself to sexual symbolism . 
In his chapter on " The Loveways Of The Beat Generation " , Lipton spares the reader none of the sordid details . 
No one asks questions about the free union of the sexes in West Venice so long as the partners share the negative attitudes of the group . 
The women who come to West Venice , having forsaken radicalism , are interested in living only for the moment , in being constantly on the move . 
Others who are attracted to this Mecca of the beat generation are homosexuals , heroin addicts , and smalltime hoodlums . 
Those who are sexual deviants are naturally drawn to join the beatniks . 
Since the homosexuals widely use marijuana , they do not have to be initiated . 
Part of the ritual of sex is the use of marijuana . 
As Lipton puts it : " The Eros is felt in the magic circle of marijuana with far greater force , as a unifying principle in human relationships , than at any other time except , perhaps , in the mutual metaphysical orgasms . 
The magic circle is , in fact , a symbol of and preparation for the metaphysical orgasm " . 
Under the influence of marijuana the beatnik comes alive within and experiences a wonderfully enhanced sense of self as if he had discovered the open sesame to the universe of being . 
Carried high on this " charge " , he composes " magical " poetry that captures the organic rhythms of life in words . 
If he thus achieves a lyrical , dreamlike , drugged intensity , he pays the price for his indulgence by producing work -- Allen Ginsberg 's " Howl " is a striking example of this tendency -- that is disoriented , Dionysian but without depth and without Apollonian control . 
For drugs are in themselves no royal road to creativity . 
How is the beat poet to achieve unity of form when he is at the same time engaged in a systematic derangement of senses . 
If love reflects the nature of man , as Ortega Y Gasset believes , if the person in love betrays decisively what he is by his behavior in love , then the writers of the beat generation are creating a new literary genre . 
