Writers of this class of science fiction have clearly in mind the assumptions that man can master the principles of this cause-and-effect universe and that such mastery will necessarily better the human lot . 
On the other hand , the bright vision of the future has been directly stated in science fiction concerned with projecting ideal societies -- science fiction , of course , is related , if sometimes distantly , to that utopian literature optimistic about science , literature whose period of greatest vigor in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries produced Edward Bellamy 's Looking Backward and H.G. Wells 's A Modern Utopia . 
In Arthur Clarke 's Childhood 's End ( 1953 ) , though written after the present flood of dystopias began , we can see the bright vision of science fiction clearly defined . 
Childhood 's End -- apparently indebted to Kurd Lasswitz 's Utopian romance , Auf Zwei Planeten ( 1897 ) , and also to Wells 's Histories Of The Future , especially , The World Set Free ( 1914 ) and The Shape Of Things To Come ( 1933 ) -- describes the bloodless conquest of earth by the Overlords , vastly superior creatures who come to our world in order to prepare the human race for its next stage of development , an eventual merging with the composite mind of the universe . 
Arriving just in time to stop men from turning their planet into a radioactive wasteland , the Overlords unite earth into one world in which justice , order , and benevolence prevail and ignorance , poverty , and fear have ceased to exist . 
Under their rule , earth becomes a technological utopia . 
Both abolition of war and new techniques of production , particularly robot factories , greatly increase the world 's wealth , a situation described in the following passage , which has the true utopian ring : " Everything was so cheap that the necessities of life were free , provided as a public service by the community , as roads , water , street lighting and drainage had once been . 
A man could travel anywhere he pleased , eat whatever he fancied -- without handing over any money " . 
With destructive tensions and pressures removed men have the vigor and energy to construct a new human life -- rebuilding entire cities , expanding facilities for entertainment , providing unlimited opportunities for education -- indeed , for the first time giving everyone the chance to employ his talents to the fullest . 
Mankind , as a result , attains previously undreamed of levels of civilization and culture , a golden age which the Overlords , a very evident symbol of science , have helped produce by introducing reason and the scientific method into human activities . 
Thus science is the savior of mankind , and in this respect Childhood 's End only blueprints in greater detail the vision of the future which , though not always so directly stated , has nevertheless been present in the minds of most science-fiction writers . 
Considering then the optimism which has permeated science fiction for so long , what is really remarkable is that during the last twelve years many science-fiction writers have turned about and attacked their own cherished vision of the future , have attacked the Childhood 's End kind of faith that science and technology will inevitably better the human condition . 
And they have done this on a very large scale , with a veritable flood of novels and stories which are either dystopias or narratives of adventure with dystopian elements . 
Because of the means of publication -- science-fiction magazines and cheap paperbacks -- and because dystopian science fiction is still appearing in quantity the full range and extent of this phenomenon can hardly be known , though one fact is evident : the science-fiction imagination has been immensely fertile in its extrapolations . 
Among the dystopias , for example , Isaac Asimov 's The Caves Of Steel ( 1954 ) portrays the deadly effects on human life of the super-city of the future ; ; James Blish 's A Case Of Conscience ( 1958 ) describes a world hiding from its own weapons of destruction in underground shelters ; ; Ray Bradbury 's Fahrenheit 451 ( 1954 ) presents a book-burning society in which wall television and hearing-aid radios enslave men 's minds ; ; Walter M. Miller , Jr. 's , A Canticle For Leibowitz ( 1959 ) finds men , after the great atomic disaster , stumbling back to their previous level of civilization and another catastrophe ; ; Frederick Pohl 's " The Midas Touch " ( 1954 ) predicts an economy of abundance which , in order to remain prosperous , must set its robots to consuming surplus production ; ; Clifford D. Simak 's " How-2 " ( 1954 ) tells of a future when robots have taken over , leaving men nothing to do ; ; and Robert Sheckley 's The Status Civilization ( 1960 ) describes a world which , frightened by the powers of destruction science has given it , becomes static and conformist . 
A more complete list would also include Bradbury 's " The Pedestrian " ( 1951 ) , Philip K. Dick 's Solar Lottery ( 1955 ) , David Karp 's One ( 1953 ) , Wilson Tucker 's The Long Loud Silence ( 1952 ) , Jack Vance 's To Live Forever ( 1956 ) , Gore Vidal 's Messiah ( 1954 ) , and Bernard Wolfe 's Limbo ( 1952 ) , as well as the three perhaps most outstanding dystopias , Frederik Pohl and C.M. Kornbluth 's The Space Merchants ( 1953 ) , Kurt Vonnegut 's Player Piano ( 1952 ) , and John Wyndham 's Re-Birth ( 1953 ) , works which we will later examine in detail . 
The novels and stories like Pohl 's Drunkard 's Walk ( 1960 ) , with the focus on adventure and with the dystopian elements only a dim background -- in this case an uneasy , overpopulated world in which the mass of people do uninteresting routine jobs while a carefully selected , university-trained elite runs everything -- are in all likelihood as numerous as dystopias . 
There is , of course , nothing new about dystopias , for they belong to a literary tradition which , including also the closely related satiric utopias , stretches from at least as far back as the eighteenth century and Swift 's Gulliver 's Travels to the twentieth century and Zamiatin 's We , Capek 's War With The Newts , Huxley 's Brave New World , E.M. Forster 's " The Machine Stops " , C.S. Lewis 's That Hideous Strength , and Orwell 's Nineteen Eighty-Four , and which in science fiction is represented before the present deluge as early as Wells 's trilogy , The Time Machine , " A Story Of The Days To Come " , and When The Sleeper Wakes , and as recently as Jack Williamson 's " With Folded Hands " ( 1947 ) , the classic story of men replaced by their own robots . 
What makes the current phenomenon unique is that so many science-fiction writers have reversed a trend and turned to writing works critical of the impact of science and technology on human life . 
Since the great flood of these dystopias has appeared only in the last twelve years , it seems fairly reasonable to assume that the chief impetus was the 1949 publication of Nineteen Eighty-Four , an assumption which is supported by the frequent echoes of such details as Room 101 , along with education by conditioning from Brave New World , a book to which science-fiction writers may well have returned with new interest after reading the more powerful Orwell dystopia . 
Not all recent science fiction , however , is dystopian , for the optimistic strain is still very much alive in Mission Of Gravity and Childhood 's End , as we have seen , as well as in many other recent popular novels and stories like Fred Hoyle 's The Black Cloud ( 1957 ) ; ; and among works of dystopian science fiction , not all provide intelligent criticism and very few have much merit as literature -- but then real quality has always been scarce in science fiction . 
In addition , there are many areas of the human situation besides the impact of science and technology which are examined , for science-fiction dystopias often extrapolate political , social , economic tendencies only indirectly related to science and technology . 
Nevertheless , with all these qualifications and exceptions , the current dystopian phenomenon remains impressive for its criticism that science and technology , instead of bringing utopia , may well enslave , dehumanize , and even destroy men . 
How effectively these warnings can be presented is seen in Pohl and Kornbluth 's The Space Merchants , Vonnegut 's Player Piano and Wyndham 's Re-Birth . 
Easily the best known of these three novels is The Space Merchants , a good example of a science-fiction dystopia which extrapolates much more than the impact of science on human life , though its most important warning is in this area , namely as to the use to which discoveries in the behavioral sciences may be put . 
The novel , which is not merely dystopian but also brilliantly satiric , describes a future America where one-sixteenth of the population , the men who run advertising agencies and big corporations , control the rest of the people , the submerged fifteen-sixteenths who are the workers and consumers , with the government being no more than " a clearing house for pressures " . 
Like ours , the economy of the space merchants must constantly expand in order to survive , and , like ours , it is based on the principle of " ever increasing everybody 's work and profits in the circle of consumption " . 
The consequences , of course , have been dreadful : reckless expansion has led to overpopulation , pollution of the earth and depletion of its natural resources . 
For example , even the most successful executive lives in a two-room apartment while ordinary people rent space in the stairwells of office buildings in which to sleep at night ; ; soyaburgers have replaced meat , and wood has become so precious that it is saved for expensive jewelry ; ; and the atmosphere is so befouled that no one dares walk in the open without respirators or soot plugs . 
While The Space Merchants indicates , as Kingsley Amis has correctly observed , some of the " impending consequences of the growth of industrial and commercial power " and satirizes " existing habits in the advertising profession " , its warning and analysis penetrate much deeper . 
What is wrong with advertising is not only that it is an " outrage , an assault on people 's mental privacy " or that it is a major cause for a wasteful economy of abundance or that it contains a coercive tendency ( which is closer to the point ) . 
Rather what Kornbluth and Pohl are really doing is warning against the dangers inherent in perfecting " a science of man and his motives " . 
The Space Merchants , like such humanist documents as Joseph Wood Krutch 's The Measure Of Man and C.S. Lewis 's The Abolition Of Man , considers what may result from the scientific study of human nature . 
If man is actually the product of his environment and if science can discover the laws of human nature and the ways in which environment determines what people do , then someone -- a someone probably standing outside traditional systems of values -- can turn around and develop completely efficient means for controlling people . 
Thus we will have a society consisting of the planners or conditioners , and the controlled . 
And this , of course , is exactly what Madison Avenue has been accused of doing albeit in a primitive way , with its " hidden persuaders " and what the space merchants accomplish with much greater sophistication and precision . 
Pohl and Kornbluth 's ad men have long since thrown out appeals to reason and developed techniques of advertising which tie in with " every basic trauma and neurosis in American life " , which work on the libido of consumers , which are linked to the " great prime motivations of the human spirit " . 
As the hero , Mitchell Courtenay , explains before his conversion , the job of advertising is " to convince people without letting them know that they 're being convinced " . 
And to do this requires first of all the kind of information about people which is provided by the scientists in industrial anthropology and consumer research , who , for example , tell Courtenay that three days is the " optimum priming period for a closed social circuit to be triggered with a catalytic cue-phrase " -- which means that an effective propaganda technique is to send an idea into circulation and then three days later reinforce or undermine it . 
And the second requirement for convincing people without their knowledge is artistic talent to prepare the words and pictures which persuade by using the principles which the scientists have discovered . 
Thus the copywriter in the world of the space merchants is the person who in earlier ages might have been a lyric poet , the person " capable of putting together words that stir and move and sing " . 
As Courtenay explains , " Here in this profession we reach into the souls of men and women . 
And we do it by taking talent -- and redirecting it " . 
Now the basic question to be asked in this situation is what motivates the manipulators , that is , what are their values ? ? 
-- since , as Courtenay says , " Nobody should play with lives the way we do unless he 's motivated by the highest ideals " . 
But the only ideal he can think of is " Sales " ! ! 
Indeed , again and again , the space merchants confirm the prediction of the humanists that the conditioners and behavioral scientists , once they have seen through human nature , will have nothing except their impulses and desires to guide them . 
