The group , upon the issuance of its first press release on December 21 , 1957 , designated itself a " Committee of Investigation " . 
In the course of its inquiry , it took testimony from only seven witnesses . 
It heard Bang-Jensen twice and his lawyer , Adolf A. Berle , Jr. , once . 
Its second press release was on January 15 , 1958 , and it recommended that the secret papers be destroyed . 
It also implied that Paul Bang-Jensen had been irresponsible . 
On January 18 , Ernest Gross conducted a press conference at the U.N. lasting an hour . 
Here , he openly attacked Bang-Jensen and referred to his " aberrant conduct " . 
This conference was held despite Stavropoulos ' assurance to Adolf Berle , who was leaving the same day for Puerto Rico , that nothing would be done until his return on January 22 , except that the Secretary General would probably order the list destroyed . 
On January 24 Paul Bang-Jensen , accompanied by Adolf Berle , was met by Dragoslav Protitch and Colonel Frank Begley , former Police Chief of Farmington , Conn. , and now head of U.N. special police . 
The four , bundled in overcoats , mounted to the wind-swept roof of the U.N . 
There , Begley lit a fire in a wire basket , and Bang-Jensen dropped four sealed envelopes into the flames . 
In one of these he said were notes on the identities of the eighty-one refugees . 
The method of destroying the evidence embarrassed Paul Bang-Jensen . 
He knew it would be implied that it was done in this way at his insistence . 
He was right , and Peter Marshall could not help but recall Andrew Cordier 's words on the subject , " Well , it seemed as good a place as any to do the job " . 
The Gross group had been formed for the express purpose of advising the Secretary General . 
Hammarskjold 's supposed desire to seek outside legal advice in the guise of Ernest Gross is illusion , at best . 
Gross 's , being " outside " the U.N. applied only to a physical state , not an objective one . 
But by the time the papers were finally disposed of , the group had informed the world of its purpose , its recommendations , and its belief that Paul Bang-Jensen was not of sound mind . 
Shortly the group would issue its report to the Secretary General , recommending Paul Bang-Jensen 's dismissal from the United Nations . 
The contents of this 195-page document would become known to many before it would become known to the man it was written about . 
" Until this Hungarian Committee matter came up , Bang-Jensen was a fine and devoted individual . 
I had known him for some years , when I was a delegate and before , and this manner had never been his " . 
Ernest A. Gross leaned back in his chair and told Peter Marshall how Secretary General Dag Hammarskjold had , on December 4 , 1957 , called him in as a private lawyer to review Bang-Jensen 's conduct " relating to his association with the Special Committee on the problem of Hungary " . 
The result was the " Gross Report " , prepared by Gross , as chairman , with the assistance of two U.N. Under Secretaries , Constantin Stavropoulos and Philippe De Seynes . 
" Yes " , Gross went on , " Bang-Jensen was an up-and-coming young man . 
He had always done well . 
Never well known , but he had done his work competently . 
" Gross had received Marshall courteously and they were discussing the case . 
" You know " , the lawyer said , " it 's difficult to talk like this about a man who ca n't answer back " . 
Gross was behind a clean-top desk , only a manila folder before him . 
Marshall sat in one of the several leather chairs . 
Outside the office windows , twenty-four stories above Wall Street , a light rain was falling . 
" Mr. Gross , your report says that ' our function is investigative and advisory and does not in any way derogate from or prejudice Mr. Bang-Jensen 's rights as a staff member . 
You know , Bang-Jensen characterized your Committee as having prejudged his case " . 
Gross swung his swivel chair . 
" Well , how could that have been ? ? 
I do n't consider that he was prejudged . 
We were given a job and we carried it out , and later , his case was taken up by the Disciplinary Committee . 
" We have nothing to hide under a bushel . 
We did our job , Mr. Stavropoulos and Mr. De Seynes and myself , taking evidence from a number of people " . 
" What did you think about his mental state " ? ? 
" I think our report sums up our finding " , Gross answered . 
" Do n't forget , here was a man who had been accusing his colleagues for almost a year of willfully attempting to present an incorrect report . 
" This was not merely alleging errors , but was carried out by day-after-day allegations in memos , written charges of serious consequence . 
" This is a distressing thing . 
Supposing you or I were being accused in this manner , and yet we were doing our level best to carry on our work . 
No organization can carry on like that . 
" I 've been in government and I can tell some pretty hairy stories about personnel difficulties , so I know what a problem he was " . 
" What I 'd like you to comment on is the criticism leveled at your Committee " . 
" What do you mean " ? ? 
" For instance , regarding the fact that the Gross Committee issued two interim announcements to the press during its investigation . 
You know Bang-Jensen was told the Committee was ' to convey its views , suggestions and recommendations to the Secretary General . 
In his own words , Bang-Jensen ' took it for granted that the Group would report to the Secretary General privately and not in public . 
He claimed that the release of the preliminary findings was ' prejudicial to his position ' " . 
Gross bristled . 
For an instant he glared speechless at Marshall . 
" Listen " , he said . 
" I thought the entire report was going to be confidential from beginning to end . 
But you know Bang-Jensen launched an active campaign against us in the press . 
It was getting so that we , the Committee , were being tried . 
You can find it in the papers " . 
" Well , as a matter of fact , I 've looked through back-issue files of New York papers for December , 1957 , and have n't found a great deal " -- Gross shot another look at Marshall . 
" It was n't necessarily all here in New York . 
Do n't forget the foreign press " . 
" Then what about the second interim public announcement ? ? 
This cited Bang-Jensen 's ' aberrant conduct ' " . 
" The reason for that report was to settle the matter of the list . 
As far as I 'm concerned , it was a separate matter from the general Committee study of Bang-Jensen 's conduct . 
The January fifteen report recommended that Bang-Jensen be instructed to burn the list -- the papers -- in the presence of a U.N. Security Officer " . 
" How about your press conference three days later -- what was the reason for that ? ? 
Bang-Jensen said you told correspondents that you had checked in advance to make sure the term ' aberrant conduct ' was not libelous . 
He claimed you made other slanderous allegations " . 
Gross paused and repeated himself . 
" The entire object of the press conference was to clarify the problem of the list , since many in the press were querying the U.N. about it . 
What was the list ? ? 
I do n't know . 
Bang-Jensen never explained what the documents or papers were that he had in his possession . 
" It was foolish of him to keep them , whatever they were . 
He could have been blackmailed , or his family might have been threatened . 
Of course the matter caught the public 's attention . 
We attempted to conclude this , and did so by having the papers burned . 
Hammarskjold did n't like the way it was carried out . 
It was a sort of Gotterdammerung affair . 
Hammarskjold believes the U.N. is an organization that settles matters in a procedural way . 
" Peter Marshall reflected . 
If Hammarskjold had not wanted the list disposed of in this manner , and if Bang-Jensen had not wanted it -- who had ordered it ? ? 
" Mr. Gross , concerning the formation of your Committee , there 's the fact that you have been a legal adviser to the U.N. in the past ; ; as I understand it , Mr. Hammarskjold wanted outside advice . 
Could you comment on that " ? ? 
" I 've served as a counsel for the U.N. for some years , specializing particularly in real estate matters or other problems that the regular U.N. legal staff might not be equipped to handle . 
Mr. Stavropoulos is the U.N. legal chief and a very good man , but he is not fully versed on some technical points of American law " . 
" What did you think about Bang-Jensen 's contention of errors and omissions in the Hungarian report " ? ? 
Marshall asked . 
" Those " ! ! 
Gross answered . 
" Why , Mick Shann went over and over the report with Alsing Andersen , trying to check them out . 
Even after the incident between Bang-Jensen and Shann in the Delegates ' Lounge and this was not the way the Chicago Tribune presented it " . 
Gross reached in his desk and pulled out two newspaper clippings . 
One was an article on the U.N. by Alice Widener from the Cincinnati Enquirer . 
The other was by Chesly Manley in the Chicago Daily Tribune . 
Gross pointed to the Manley story . 
" I know Ches , he 's a friend of mine . 
He probably did n't mean to write it this way , or maybe he did . 
There was n't any ' violent argument ' between Bang-Jensen and Shann , as the Tribune puts it . 
That implies that Shann was on the enemy side . 
You see what I mean ? ? 
How it 's phrased there -- the word violent . 
" The case was that Bang-Jensen came up to Shann claiming he had found further errors in the report . 
' I 've found errors and I want you to look them over . 
So once again Shann had to argue with him about this . 
But it was n't a violent discussion . 
And after all this , Shann went over all that Bang-Jensen had brought up " . 
( Shann 's own report , Peter Marshall reflected , describes the encounter as " immoderate " . 
Bang-Jensen was in " hysterical condition " . 
) Gross stopped briefly , then went on . 
" Shann was responsible for the report . 
He has felt terrible about all this . 
It was a good report , he did all he could to make it a good report . 
When I speak of how Shann felt , I know well . 
Do n't forget , I am an old member of the club , a former delegate . 
I think you are being unfair to take these things up now . 
" You know , this hits in many areas . 
It appeals to those who were frustrated in the outcome of the Hungarian situation . 
Do n't forget , the U.N. did no more than the United States did . 
It takes a great deal of sophisticated thought to get the impact of this fact " . 
Chapter 22 from the home of his friend , Henrik Kauffmann , in Washington , D.C. , Paul Bang-Jensen sent a telegram dated December 9 , 1957 , to Ernest Gross . 
It said in part : " the matters to be considered are obviously of a grave character , and I therefore respectfully request that the hearing be postponed for two weeks in order that I might make adequate preparation " . 
Ernest Gross replied the next day , putting the suspended diplomat 's fears to rest . 
" This reveals some misunderstanding on your part . 
The group conducting the review is not holding formal hearings . 
It wished to pursue , in the course of this review , questions arising from the body of material already in its possession . 
" It sounded like a fair enough invitation , Peter Marshall reflected , and Bang-Jensen must have thought so too , because on the thirteenth , he met the group of three on the thirty-sixth floor of the U.N. . There , Ernest Gross further assured him : " We were requested by the Secretary General , as I understand it , to discuss with you such matters as appear to us to be relevant , and we are not of course either a formal group or a committee in the sense of being guided by any rules or regulations of the Secretariat . 
The only rules which I think we shall follow will be those of common sense , justice , and fairness " . 
Peter Marshall noted that Bang-Jensen had later referred to his two interviews with the Gross group as " unfortunate experiences " , and after his second meeting on the sixteenth the Dane refused to attend further hearings without legal counsel . 
Marshall pondered the reason for this , and pondered too the replacement of one member of the three-man group . 
J.A.C. Robertson , after serving Gross one week , left for England . 
