It is worth dwelling in some detail on the crisis of this story , because it brings together a number of characteristic elements and makes of them a curious , riddling compound obscurely but centrally significant for Mann 's work . 
The wife , Amra , and her lover are both savagely portrayed , she as incarnate sensuality , " voluptuous " and " indolent " , possibly " a mischief maker " , with " a kind of luxurious cunning " to set against her apparent simplicity , her " birdlike brain " . 
Lautner , for his part , " belonged to the present-day race of small artists , who do not demand the utmost of themselves " , and the bitter description of the type includes such epithets as " wretched little poseurs " , the devastating indictment " they do not know how to be wretched decently and in order " , and the somewhat extreme prophecy , so far not fulfilled : " They will be destroyed " . 
The trick these two play upon Jacoby reveals their want not simply of decency but of imagination as well . 
His appearance as Lizzy evokes not amusement but horror in the audience ; ; it is a spectacle absolutely painful , an epiphany of the suffering flesh unredeemed by spirit , untouched by any spirit other than abasement and humiliation . 
At the same time the multiple transvestitism involved -- the fat man as girl and as baby , as coquette pretending to be a baby -- touches for a moment horrifyingly upon the secret sources of a life like Jacoby 's , upon the sinister dreams which form the sources of any human life . 
The music which Lautner has composed for this episode is for the most part " rather pretty and perfectly banal " . 
But it is characteristic of him , we are told , " his little artifice " , to be able to introduce " into a fairly vulgar and humorous piece of hackwork a sudden phrase of genuine creative art " . 
And this occurs now , at the refrain of Jacoby 's song -- at the point , in fact , of the name " Lizzy " -- ; ; a modulation described as " almost a stroke of genius " . 
" A miracle , a revelation , it was like a curtain suddenly torn away to reveal something nude " . 
It is this modulation which reveals to Jacoby his own frightful abjection and , simultaneously , his wife 's infidelity . 
By the same means he perceives this fact as having communicated itself to the audience ; ; he collapses , and dies . 
In the work of every artist , I suppose , there may be found one or more moments which strike the student as absolutely decisive , ultimately emblematic of what it is all about ; ; not less strikingly so for being mysterious , as though some deeply hidden constatation of thoughts were enciphered in a single image , a single moment . 
So here . 
The horrifying humor , the specifically sexual embarrassment of the joke gone wrong , the monstrous image of the fat man dressed up as a whore dressing up as a baby ; ; the epiphany of that quivering flesh ; ; the bringing together around it of the secret liaison between indolent , mindless sensuality and sharp , shrewd talent , cleverness with an occasional touch of genius ( which , however , does not know " how to attack the problem of suffering " ) ; ; the miraculous way in which music , revelation and death are associated in a single instant -- all this seems a triumph of art , a rather desperate art , in itself ; ; beyond itself , also , it evokes numerous and distant resonances from the entire body of Mann 's work . 
When I try to work out my reasons for feeling that this passage is of critical significance , I come up with the following ideas , which I shall express very briefly here and revert to in a later essay . 
Love is the crucial dilemma of experience for Mann 's heroes . 
The dramatic construction of his stories characteristically turns on a situation in which someone is simultaneously compelled and forbidden to love . 
The release , the freedom , involved in loving another is either terribly difficult or else absolutely impossible ; ; and the motion toward it brings disaster . 
This prohibition on love has an especially poignant relation to art ; ; it is particularly the artist ( Tonio Kroger , Aschenbach , Leverkuhn ) who suffers from it . 
The specific analogy to the dilemma of love is the problem of the " breakthrough " in the realm of art . 
Again , the sufferings and disasters produced by any transgression against the commandment not to love are almost invariably associated in one way or another with childhood , with the figure of a child . 
Finally , the theatrical ( and perversely erotic ) notions of dressing up , cosmetics , disguise , and especially change of costume ( or singularity of costume , as with Cipolla ) , are characteristically associated with the catastrophes of Mann 's stories . 
We shall return to these statements and deal with them more fully as the evidence for them accumulates . 
For the present it is enough to note that in the grotesque figure of Jacoby , at the moment of his collapse , all these elements come together in prophetic parody . 
Professionally a lawyer , that is to say associated with dignity , reserve , discipline , with much that is essentially middle-class , he is compelled by an impossible love to exhibit himself dressed up , disguised -- that is , paradoxically , revealed -- as a child , and , worse , as a whore masquerading as a child . 
That this abandonment takes place on a stage , during an ' artistic ' performance , is enough to associate Jacoby with art , and to bring down upon him the punishment for art ; ; that is , he is suspect , guilty , punishable , as is anyone in Mann 's stories who produces illusion , and this is true even though the constant elements of the artist-nature , technique , magic , guilt and suffering , are divided in this story between Jacoby and Lautner . 
It appears that the dominant tendency of Mann 's early tales , however pictorial or even picturesque the surface , is already toward the symbolic , the emblematic , the expressionistic . 
In a certain perfectly definite way , the method and the theme of his stories are one and the same . 
Something of this can be learned from " The Way To The Churchyard " ( 1901 ) , an anecdote about an old failure whose fit of anger at a passing cyclist causes him to die of a stroke or seizure . 
There is no more " plot " than that ; ; only slightly more , perhaps , than a newspaper account of such an incident would give . 
The artistic interest , then , lies in what the encounter may be made to represent , in the power of some central significance to draw the details into relevance and meaningfulness . 
The first sentence , with its platitudinous irony , announces an emblematic intent : " The way to the churchyard ran along beside the highroad , ran beside it all the way to the end ; ; that is to say , to the churchyard " . 
And the action is consistently presented with regard for this distinction . 
The highroad , one might say at first , belongs to life , while the way to the churchyard belongs to death . 
But that is too simple , and wo n't hold up . 
As the first sentence suggests , both roads belong to death in the end . 
But the highroad , according to the description of its traffic , belongs to life as it is lived in unawareness of death , while the way to the churchyard belongs to some other sort of life : a suffering form , an existence wholly comprised in the awareness of death . 
Thus , on the highroad , a troop of soldiers " marched in their own dust and sang " , while on the footpath one man walks alone . 
This man 's isolation is not merely momentary , it is permanent . 
He is a widower , his three children are dead , he has no one left on earth ; ; also he is a drunk , and has lost his job on that account . 
His name is Praisegod Piepsam , and he is rather fully described as to his clothing and physiognomy in a way which relates him to a sinister type in the author 's repertory -- he is a forerunner of those enigmatic strangers in " Death In Venice " , for example , who represent some combination of cadaver , exotic , and psychopomp . 
This strange person quarrels with a cyclist because the latter is using the path rather than the highroad . 
The cyclist , a sufficiently commonplace young fellow , is not named but identified simply as " Life " -- that and a license number , which Piepsam uses in addressing him . 
" Life " points out that " everybody uses this path " , and starts to ride on . 
Piepsam tries to stop him by force , receives a push in the chest from " Life " , and is left standing in impotent and growing rage , while a crowd begins to gather . 
His rage assumes a religious form ; ; that is , on the basis of his own sinfulness and abject wretchedness , Piepsam becomes a prophet who in his ecstasy and in the name of God imprecates doom on Life -- not only the cyclist now , but the audience , the world , as well : " all you light-headed breed " . 
This passion brings on a fit which proves fatal . 
Then an ambulance comes along , and they drive Praisegod Piepsam away . 
This is simple enough , but several more points of interest may be mentioned as relevant . 
The season , between spring and summer , belongs to life in its carefree aspect . 
Piepsam 's fatal rage arises not only because he can not stop the cyclist , but also because God will not stop him ; ; as Piepsam says to the crowd in his last moments : " His justice is not of this world " . 
Life is further characterized , in antithesis to Piepsam , as animal : the image of a dog , which appears at several places , is first given as the criterion of amiable , irrelevant interest aroused by life considered simply as a spectacle : a dog in a wagon is " admirable " , " a pleasure to contemplate " ; ; another wagon has no dog , and therefore is " devoid of interest " . 
Piepsam calls the cyclist " cur " and " puppy " among other things , and at the crisis of his fit a little fox-terrier stands before him and howls into his face . 
The ambulance is drawn by two " charming " little horses . 
Piepsam is not , certainly , religious in any conventional sense . 
His religiousness is intimately , or dialectically , connected with his sinfulness ; ; the two may in fact be identical . 
His unsuccessful strivings to give up drink are represented as religious strivings ; ; he keeps a bottle in a wardrobe at home , and " before this wardrobe Praisegod Piepsam had before now gone literally on his knees , and in his wrestlings had bitten his tongue -- and still in the end capitulated " . 
The cyclist , by contrast , blond and blue-eyed , is simply unreflective , unproblematic Life , " blithe and carefree " . 
" He made no claims to belong to the great and mighty of this earth " . 
Piepsam is grotesque , a disturbing parody ; ; his end is ridiculous and trivial . 
He is " a man raving mad on the way to the churchyard " . 
But he is more interesting than the others , the ones who come from the highroad to watch him , more interesting than Life considered as a cyclist . 
And if I have gone into so much detail about so small a work , that is because it is also so typical a work , representing the germinal form of a conflict which remains essential in Mann 's writing : the crude sketch of Piepsam contains , in its critical , destructive and self-destructive tendencies , much that is enlarged and illuminated in the figures of , for instance , Naphta and Leverkuhn . 
In method as well as in theme this little anecdote with its details selected as much for expressiveness and allegory as for " realism " , anticipates a kind of musical composition , as well as a kind of fictional composition , in which , as Leverkuhn says , " there shall be nothing unthematic " . 
It resembles , too , pictures such as Durer and Bruegel did , in which all that looks at first to be solely pictorial proves on inspection to be also literary , the representation of a proverb , for example , or a deadly sin . 
" Gladius Dei " ( 1902 ) resembles " The Way To The Churchyard " in its representation of a conflict between light and dark , between " Life " and a spirit of criticism , negation , melancholy , but it goes considerably further in characterizing the elements of this conflict . 
The monk Savonarola , brought over from the Renaissance and placed against the background of Munich at the turn of the century , protests against the luxurious works displayed in the art-shop of M. Bluthenzweig ; ; in particular against a Madonna portrayed in a voluptuous style and modeled , according to gossip , upon the painter 's mistress . 
Hieronymus , like Piepsam , makes his protest quite in vain , and his rejection , though not fatal , is ridiculous and humiliating ; ; he is simply thrown out of the shop by the porter . 
On the street outside , Hieronymus envisions a holocaust of the vanities of this world , such a burning of artistic and erotic productions as his namesake actually brought to pass in Florence , and prophetically he issues his curse : " Gladius Dei super terram cito et velociter " . 
