When the Brown & Sharpe Manufacturing Company reached its 125th year as a going industrial concern during 1958 , it became an almost unique institution in the mechanical world . 
With its history standing astride all but the very beginnings of the industrial revolution , Brown & Sharpe has become over the years a singular monument to the mechanical foresight of its founder , Joseph R. Brown , and a world-renowned synonym for precision and progress in metalworking technology . 
Joseph R. Brown grew up in the bustle and enterprise of New England between 1810 and 1830 . 
He was early exposed to the mechanical world , and in his youth often helped his father , David Brown , master clock and watchmaker , as he plied his trade . 
At the age of 17 he became an apprentice machinist at the shop of Walcott & Harris in Valley Falls , Rhode Island , and following two or three other jobs in quick succession after graduation , he went into business for himself in 1831 , making lathes and small tools . 
This enterprise led to a father-and-son combination beginning in 1833 , under the name D. Brown & Son , a business which eventually grew into the modern corporation we now call Brown & Sharpe . 
The years of Joseph 's partnership with his father were numbered . 
In 1838 , a devastating fire gutted their small shop and soon thereafter David Brown moved west to Illinois , settling on a land grant in his declining years . 
Joseph Brown continued in business by himself , quickly rebuilding the establishment which had been lost in the fire and beginning those first steps which were to establish him as a pioneer in raising the standards of accuracy of machine shop practice throughout the world . 
Much of his genius , of course , sprang from his familiarity with clock movements . 
During these early years the repair of watches and clocks and the building of special clocks for church steeples formed an important part of the young man 's occupation . 
He became particularly interested in graduating and precision measurement during the 1840 's , and his thinking along these lines developed considerably during this period . 
But his business also grew , and we are told that Mr. Brown found it increasingly difficult to devote as much time to his creative thinking as his inclinations led him to desire . 
It must have been with some pleasure and relief that on September 12 , 1848 , Joseph Brown made the momentous entry in his job book , in his characteristically cryptic style , " Lucian Sharpe came to work for me this day as an apprentice " . 
The young apprentice apparently did well by Mr. Brown , for in the third year of his apprenticeship Lucian was offered a full partnership in the firm ; ; the company became " J.R. Brown & Sharpe " , and entered into a new and important period of its development . 
Mr. Sharpe 's arrival in the business did indeed provide what Mr. Brown had most coveted -- time for " tinkering " , and the opportunity of carrying out in the back room those developments in precision graduation which most interested him at that time . 
By 1853 , the new partnership announced the precision vernier caliper as the first fruit of their joint efforts . 
The basic significance of this invention helped them to follow it rapidly in 1855 by the development of a unique precision gear cutting and dividing engine . 
That development , in turn , formed the foundation of still more significant expansions in later years -- in gear cutting , in circular graduating , in index drilling , and in many other fields where accuracy was a paramount requirement . 
Throughout their careers , both Mr. Brown and Mr. Sharpe were interested in the problem of setting up standards of measurement for the mechanical trades . 
Several efforts were made in this direction , and though not all of them survive to this day , the Brown & Sharpe wire gage system was eventually adopted as the American standard and is still in common use today . 
As one development followed another , the company 's reputation for precision in the graduating field brought it broader and broader opportunities for expansion in precision manufacture . 
In 1858 , the partnership began manufacturing the Willcox & Gibbs sewing machine . 
As the story goes , Mr. Gibbs , who originally came from the back counties of the Commonwealth of Virginia , saw an illustration in a magazine of the famous Howe sewing machine . 
Curious as to what made it work , he built a crude model of it in wood , and filed a piece of steel until he succeeded in making a metal pickup for the thread , enabling the crude machine to take stitches . 
When he showed this model as his " solution " as to how the Howe sewing machine operated , he was told he was " wrong " , and discovered to his amazement that the Howe Machine , which was unknown to him in detail , used two threads while the one that he had perfected used only one . 
Thus was invented the single thread sewing machine , which Mr. Gibbs in partnership with Mr. Willcox decided to bring to Brown & Sharpe with the proposal that the small company undertake its manufacture . 
The new work was a boon to the partnership , not only for its own value but particularly for the stimulation it provided to the imagination of J.R. Brown toward yet further developments for production equipment . 
The turret screw machine , now known as the Brown & Sharpe hand screw machine , takes its ancestry directly from Mr. Brown 's efforts to introduce equipment to simplify the manufacture of the sewing machine . 
Mr. Brown made important additions to the arts in screw machine design by drastically improving the means for revolving the turret , by introducing automatic feeding devices for the stock , and reversible tap and die holders . 
In 1861 , Mr. Brown 's attention was called to yet another basic production problem -- the manufacture of twist drills . 
At that time , during the Civil War , Union muskets were being manufactured in Providence and the drills to drill them were being hand-filed with rattail files . 
This process neither satisfied the urgent production schedules nor Mr. Brown 's imagination of the possibilities in the situation . 
The child of this problem was Mr. Brown 's famous Serial No. 1 Universal Milling Machine , the archtype from which is descended today 's universal knee-type milling machine used throughout the world . 
The original machine , bearing its famous serial number , is still on exhibition at the Brown & Sharpe Precision Center in Providence . 
During the Civil War period Mr. Brown also invented the Brown & Sharpe formed tooth gear cutter , a basic invention which ultimately revolutionized the world 's gear manufacturing industry by changing its basic economics . 
Up until that time it had been possible to make cutters for making gear teeth , but they were good for only one sharpening . 
As soon as the time came for re-sharpening , the precise form of the gear tooth was lost and a new cutter had to be made . 
This process made the economical manufacture of gears questionable until some way could be found to permit the repeated re-sharpening of gear tooth cutters without the loss of the precision form . 
Mr. Brown 's invention achieved this and , as a byproduct , formed the cornerstone of Brown & Sharpe 's position of leadership in the gear making equipment field which lasted until the 1920 's when superceded by other methods . 
The micrometer caliper , as a common workshop tool , also owes much to J.R. Brown . 
Although Mr. Brown was not himself its inventor ( it was a French idea ) , it is typical that his intuition first conceived the importance of mass producing this basic tool for general use . 
So it was that when Mr. Brown and Mr. Sharpe first saw the French tool on exhibition in Paris in 1868 , they brought a sample with them to the United States and started Brown & Sharpe in yet another field where it retains its leadership to this day . 
The final achievement of Mr. Brown 's long and interesting mechanical career runs a close second in importance to his development of the universal milling machine . 
That achievement was his creation of the universal grinding machine , which made its appearance in 1876 at the Philadelphia Centennial Exposition . 
This machine , like its milling counterpart , was the antecedent of a machine-family used to this very day in precision metalworking shops throughout the world . 
Along with J.R. Brown 's other major developments , the universal grinding machine was profoundly influential in setting the course of Brown & Sharpe for many years to come . 
Following Mr. Brown 's death , there came forward in the Brown & Sharpe organization many other men who contributed greatly to the development of the company . 
One such man was Samuel Darling . 
As head of the firm Darling & Swartz , Mr. Darling began by challenging Brown & Sharpe to its keenest competition during the 1850 's and early 60 's . 
In 1868 , however , a truce was called between the companies , and the partnership of Darling , Brown & Sharpe was formed . 
Between that year and the buying out of Mr. Darling 's interest in 1892 , a large portion of the company 's precision tool business was carried out under the name of Darling , Brown & Sharpe , and to this day many old precision tools are in use still bearing that famous trademark . 
Perhaps the outstanding standard bearer of Mr. Brown 's tradition for accuracy was Mr. Oscar J. Beale , whose mechanical genius closely paralleled that of Mr. Brown , and whose particular forte was the development of the exceedingly accurate measuring machinery that enabled Brown & Sharpe to manufacture gages , and therefore its products , with an accuracy exceeding anything then available elsewhere in the world . 
Also important on the Brown & Sharpe scene , at the turn of the century , was Mr. Richmond Viall , Works Superintendent of the company from 1876 to 1910 . 
Mr. Viall possessed remarkable talents for the leadership and development of men . 
He was an ardent champion of the Brown & Sharpe Apprentice Program and personal counselor to countless able men who first developed their industrial talents with the company . 
In one sense it can be said that one of the most important Brown & Sharpe products over the years has been the men who began work with the company and subsequently came to places of industrial eminence throughout the nation and even abroad . 
Commencing with the death of Lucian Sharpe in 1899 , the name of Henry D. Sharpe was for more than 50 years closely interwoven with the destiny of the company . 
During his presidency , the company 's physical plant was enormously expanded , and the length and breadth of the Brown & Sharpe machine tool line became the greatest in the world . 
During the early part of this century , the Brown & Sharpe works in Providence were unchallenged as the largest single manufacturing facility devoted exclusively to precision machinery and tool manufacture anywhere in the world . 
During these years the company 's product line followed the basic tenets laid down by Mr. Brown . 
It expanded from hand screw machines to automatic screw machines , from simple formed-tooth gear cutting machines to gear hobbing machines and a large contract gear manufacturing business , from rudimentary belt-driven universal milling machines to a broad line of elaborately controlled knee-type and manufacturing type milling machines . 
In the grinding machine field , expansion went far from universal grinders alone and took in cylindrical grinders , surface grinders , and a wide variety of special and semi-special models . 
In 1951 , Henry D. Sharpe , Jr. succeeded his father and continued the company 's development as a major factor in the metal-working equipment business . 
The company is still broadening its line and is now active on four major fronts . 
The Machine Tool Division is currently producing Brown & Sharpe single spindle automatic screw machines , grinding machines of many types , and knee and bed-type milling machines . 
Recently added is the Brown & Sharpe turret drilling machine which introduces the company to an entirely new field of tool development . 
In the Industrial Products Division , the company manufactures and markets a wide line of precision gaging and inspection equipment , machinists ' tools -- including micrometers , Vernier calipers , and accessories . 
In the Cutting Tool Division , the principal products include a wide variety of high speed steel milling cutters , end mills and saws . 
