Los Angeles in 1957 finally bowed to the skyscraper . 
) And without high density in the core , rapid-transit systems can not be maintained economically , let alone built from scratch at today 's prices . 
However , the building of freeways and garages can not continue forever . 
The new interchange among the four Los Angeles freeways , including the grade-constructed accesses , occupies by itself no less than eighty acres of downtown land , one-eighth of a square mile , an area about the size of Rockefeller Center in New York . 
It is hard to believe that this mass of intertwined concrete constitutes what the law calls " the highest and best use " of centrally located urban land . 
As it affects the city 's fiscal situation , such an interchange is ruinous ; ; it removes forever from the tax rolls property which should be taxed to pay for the city services . 
Subways improved land values without taking away land ; ; freeways boost valuation less ( because the garages they require are not prime buildings by a long shot ) , and reduce the acreage that can be taxed . 
Downtown Los Angeles is already two-thirds freeway , interchange , street , parking lot and garage -- one of those preposterous " if " statistics has already come to pass . 
The freeway with narrowly spaced interchanges concentrates and mitigates the access problem , but it also acts inevitably as an artificial , isolating boundary . 
City planners do not always use this boundary as effectively as they might . 
Less ambitious freeway plans may be more successful -- especially when the roadways and interchanges are raised , allowing for cross access at many points and providing parking areas below the ramp . 
Meanwhile , the automobile and its friend the truck have cost the central city some of its industrial dominance . 
In ever greater numbers , factories are locating in the suburbs or in " industrial parks " removed from the city 's political jurisdiction . 
The appeal of the suburb is particularly strong for heavy industry , which must move bulky objects along a lengthy assembly line and wants enough land area to do the entire job on one floor . 
To light industry , the economies of being on one floor are much slighter , but efficiency engineers usually believe in them , and manufacturers looking for ways to cut costs can not be prevented from turning to efficiency engineers . 
This movement of industry away from the central cities is not so catastrophically new as some prophets seem to believe . 
It is merely the latest example of the leapfrog growth which formed the pattern of virtually all American cities . 
The big factories which are relatively near the centers of our cities -- the rubber factories in Akron , Chrysler 's Detroit plants , U.S. Steel 's Pittsburgh works -- often began on these sites at a time when that was the edge of the city , yet close to transport ( river ) , storage ( piers ) and power ( river ) . 
The " leapfrog " was a phenomenon of the railroad and the steam turbine , and the time when the belts of residence surrounding the old factory area were not yet blighted . 
The truck and the car gave the manufacturer a new degree of freedom in selecting his plant site . 
Until internal combustion became cheap , he had to be near a railroad siding and a trolley line or an existing large community of lower-class homes . 
The railroad siding is still important -- it is usually , though not always , true that long-haul shipment by rail is cheaper than trucking . 
But anybody who promises a substantial volume of business can get a railroad to run a short spur to his plant these days , and many businesses can live without the railroad . 
And there are now many millions of workers for whom the factory with the big parking lot , which can be reached by driving across or against the usual pattern of rush hour traffic and grille-route bus lines , is actually more convenient than the walk-to factory . 
Willow Run , General Electric 's enormous installations at Louisville and Syracuse , the Pentagon , Boeing in Seattle , Douglas and Lockheed in Los Angeles , the new automobile assembly plants everywhere -- none of these is substantially served by any sort of conventional mass rapid transit . 
They are all suburban plants , relying on the roads to keep them supplied with workers . 
And wherever the new thruways go up their banks are lined by neat glass and metal and colored brick light industry . 
The drive along Massachusetts ' Route 128 , the by-pass which makes an arc about twenty miles from downtown Boston , may be a vision of the future . 
The future could be worse . 
The plants along Route 128 are mostly well designed and nicely set against the New England rocks and trees . 
They can even be rather grand , like Edward Land 's monument to the astonishing success of Polaroid . 
But they deny the values of the city -- the crowded , competitive , tolerant city , the " melting pot " which gave off so many of the most admirable American qualities . 
They are segregated businesses , combining again on one site the factory and the office , drawing their work force from segregated communities . 
It is interesting to note how many of the plants on Massachusetts ' Route 128 draw most of their income either from the government in non-competitive cost-plus arrangements , or from the exploitation of patents which grant at least a partial monopoly . 
While the factories were always the center of the labor market , they were often on the city 's periphery . 
In spreading the factories even farther , the automobile may not have changed to any great extent the growth pattern of the cities . 
Even the loss of hotel business to the outskirt 's motel has been relatively painless ; ; the hotel-motel demarcation is becoming harder to find every year . 
What hurts most is the damage the automobile has done to central-city retailing , especially in those cities where public transit is feeble . 
Some retailing , of course , always spreads with the population -- grocery stores , drugstores , local haberdasheries and dress shops , candy stores and the like . 
But whenever a major purchase was contemplated forty years ago -- a new bedroom set or a winter coat , an Easter bonnet , a bicycle for Junior -- the family set off for the downtown department store , where the selection would be greatest . 
Department stores congregated in the " one hundred per cent location " , where all the transit lines converged . 
These stores are still there , but the volume of the " downtown store " has been on a relative decline , while in many cities the suburban " branch " sells more and more dry goods . 
If the retailer and hotelman 's downtown unit sales have been decreasing , however , his dollar volume continues to rise , and it is dollars which you put in the bank . 
In most discussions of this phenomenon , the figures are substantially inflated . 
No suburban shopping-center branch -- not even Hudson 's vast Northland outside Detroit -- does anything like the unit volume of business or carries anything like the variety of merchandise to be found in the home store . 
Telephone orders distort the picture : the suburbanite naturally calls a local rather than a central-city number if both are listed in an advertisement , especially if the local call eliminates city sales tax . 
The suburban branch is thereby credited with a sale which would have been made even if its glass doors had never opened . 
Accounting procedures which continue to charge a disproportionate overhead and warehouse expense to the main store make the branches seem more profitable than they are . 
In many cases that statement -- " We break even on our downtown operation and make money on our branches " -- would be turned around if the cost analysis were recalculated on terms less prejudicial to the old store . 
Fear of the competition -- always a great motivating force in the American economy -- makes retailers who do not have suburban operations exaggerate both the volume and the profitability of their rival 's shiny new branches . 
The fact seems to be that very many large branch stores are uneconomical , that the choice of location in the suburbs is as important as it was downtown , and that even highly suburbanized cities will support only so many big branches . 
Moreover , the cost of operations is always high in any new store , as the conservative bankers who act as controllers for retail giants are beginning to discover . 
When all has been said , however , the big branch store remains a major break with history in the development of American retailing . 
Just as the suburban factory may be more convenient than the downtown plant to the worker with a car , the trip to the shopping center may seem far easier than to the downtown department store , though both are the same distance from home . 
Indeed , there are some cities where the suburban shopping pulls customers who are geographically much nearer to downtown . 
Raymond Vernon reports that residents of East St. Louis have been driving across the Mississippi , through the heart of downtown St. Louis and out to the western suburbs for major shopping , simply because parking is easier at the big branches than it is in the heart of town . 
To the extent that the problem is merely parking , an aggressive downtown management , like that of Lazarus Brothers in Columbus , Ohio , can fight back successfully by building a garage on the lot next door . 
If the distant patron of the suburban branch has been frightened away from downtown by traffic problems , however , the city store can only pressure the politicians to do something about the highways or await the completion of the federal highway program . 
And if the affection for the suburban branch reflects a desire to shop with " nice people " , rather than with the indiscriminate urban mass which supports the downtown department store , the central location may be in serious trouble . 
Today , according to land economist Homer Hoyt , shopping centers and their associated parking lots cover some 46,000 acres of land , which is almost exactly the total land area in all the nation 's Central Business Districts put together . 
The downtown store continues to offer the great inducement of variety , both within its gates and across the street , where other department stores are immediately convenient for the shopper who wants to see what is available before making up her mind . 
If anything may be predicted in the quicksilver world of retailing , it seems likely that the suburban branch will come to dominate children 's clothing ( taking the kid downtown is too much of a production ) , household gadgetry and the discount business in big-ticket items . 
Department stores were built on dry goods , especially ladies ' fashions , and in this area , in the long run , the suburban branches will be hard put to compete against downtown . 
If this analysis is correct , the suburban branches will turn out to be what management 's cost accountants refuse to acknowledge , marginal operations rather than major factors . 
Historically in America the appeal of cities has been their color and life , the variety of experience they offered . 
" How ya gon na keep 'em down on the farm " ? ? 
Was a question that had to be asked long before they saw Paree . 
Though Americans usually lived in groups segregated by national origin or religious belief , they liked to work and shop in the noise and vitality of downtown . 
Only a radical change in the nature of the population in the central city would be likely to destroy this preference -- and we must now turn our attention to the question of whether such a change , gloomily foreseen by so many urban diagnosticians , is actually upon us . 
4 . 
Suburbs and Negroes In their book , American Skyline , Christopher Tunnard and Henry Hope Reed argue that Franklin Roosevelt 's New Deal was what made the modern suburb a possibility -- a fine ironical argument , when you consider how suburbanites tend to vote . 
The first superhighways -- New York 's Henry Hudson and Chicago 's Lake Shore , San Francisco 's Bay Bridge and its approaches , a good slice of the Pennsylvania Turnpike -- were built as part of the federal works program which was going to cure the depression . 
At the same time , Roosevelt 's Federal Housing Administration , coupled with Henry Morgenthau 's cheap-money policy , permitted ordinary lower-middle-class families to build their own homes . 
Bankers who had been reluctant to lend without better security than the house itself got that security from the U.S. government ; ; householders who had been unable to pick up the burden of short-term high-interest mortgages found they could borrow for twenty-five years at 4 per cent , under government aegis . 
