Organization : In this publication measurements of interfacial angles of crystals are used to classify and identify chemical substances . 
T.V. Barker , who developed the classification-angle system , was about to begin the systematic compilation of the index when he died in 1931 . 
The compilation work was undertaken by a number of interested crystallographers in the Department of Mineralogy of the University Museum at Oxford . 
Since 1948 the working headquarters has been the Department of Geology and Mineralogy . 
Numerous cooperating individuals in Great Britain , Holland , the United States , and Belgium have contributed editorially or by making calculations . 
Great interest and practical help have been given by the Barker Index Committee . 
Financial and material help have come from academic , governmental , and industrial organizations in England and Holland . 
Editors for Volumes 1 , and 2 , were M.W. Porter and the late R.C. Spiller , both of Oxford University . 
A third volume remains to be published . 
Substances : Volume 1 , deals with 2991 compounds belonging to the tetragonal , hexagonal and trigonal , and orthorhombic systems ; ; and Volume 2 , , with about 3500 monoclinic substances . 
Volume 3 , , in preparation , will treat the anorthic compounds described in Groth 's Chemische Krystallographie . 
Properties : The Barker system is based on the use of the smallest number of interfacial angles necessary for indexing purposes . 
Other morphological , physical , and optical property values are also given . 
Sources of data : The index is essentially a new treatment of previously compiled morphological data . 
Most of the data used are from Groth 's Chemische Krystallographie . 
Criticality : Every calculation has been made independently by two workers and checked by one of the editors . 
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants : Accepted crystallographic symbolism has been used ; ; other symbols related to the index necessarily have been introduced . 
Currency : This publication covers the old literature ( Groth ) ; ; there is no mechanism for keeping the volumes up to date . 
Format : The publication form is that of clothbound books . 
The data are presented in lists and tables . 
Part 1 in both volumes is labeled " Introduction And Tables " . 
The tables include those for the classification angles , refractive indices , and melting points of the various types of crystals . 
Part 2 of Volume 1 , and Parts 2 and 3 of Volume 2 , contain the crystal descriptions . 
These are grouped into sections according to the crystal system , and within each section compounds are arranged in the same order as in Groth 's Chemische Krystallographie . 
An alphabetical list of chemical and mineralogical names with reference numbers enables one to find a particular crystal description . 
References to the data sources are given in the crystal descriptions . 
Publication and distribution : The Barker index is published for the Barker Index Committee by W. Heffer & Sons , Ltd. , 4 Petty Cury , Cambridge , England . 
Volume 1 , containing Parts 1 and 2 was published in 1951 ; ; Volume 2 , , in three parts , in 1956 . 
The two volumes are available from the publisher for $ 16.80 and $ 28.00 , respectively . 
2-2 . 
Crystal data organization : The present edition of crystal data was written by J.D.H. Donnay , the Johns Hopkins University , Baltimore , Md . 
( Part 2 ) ) and Werner Nowacki , University of Berne , Switzerland ( Part 1 ) ) with the collaboration of Gabrielle Donnay , U.S. Geological Survey , Washington , D. C. . Many collaborators in the United States and Switzerland helped in collecting and assembling data , in making calculations , and in editing . 
Support came from academic and industrial groups in these two countries . 
The Geological Society of America gave a grant-in-aid to complete the work and bore the expenses of publication . 
Preparation of a second edition is in progress under the sponsorship of the Crystal Data Committee of the American Crystallographic Association . 
Coeditors are J.D.H. Donnay , G.E. Cox of Leeds University , and Olga Kennard of the National Council for Medical Research , London . 
Financial grants have been received from the National Science Foundation and the ( British ) Institute of Physics for the compilation work and the publication costs . 
The continuity of the project is suggested by plans for an eventual third edition . 
Substances : Elements , alloys , inorganic and organic compounds . 
( Metal data will not be included in the second edition , since these have been collected independently by W.B. Pearson , National Research Council , Ottawa , and published as A handbook of lattice spacings and structures of metals and alloys by Pergamon Press . 
) properties : Crystallographic data resulting mainly from X-ray and electron diffraction measurements are presented . 
Cell dimensions , number of formula units per cell , space group , and specific gravity are given for all substances . 
For some substances , auxiliary properties such as the melting point are given . 
Sources of data : Part 1 , of the present edition covers the literature to mid-1948 ; ; Part 2 , , up to the end of 1951 . 
Much of the material comes directly from secondary sources such as Strukturbericht . 
Criticality : The vast number of compounds to be covered , the limited resources to do the job , and the immediate need for this type of compilation precluded a thorough evaluation of all available data in the present edition . 
Future editions may be more critical . 
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants : Since Parts 1 , and 2 , were prepared independently , the abbreviation schemes and the chemical symbols used differ in the two parts . 
The second edition should have greater uniformity . 
Currency : A second edition is in preparation , and there are long range plans for a third . 
Format : Data in the present edition are presented in tables and lists . 
Part 1 , deals with the classification of crystalline substances by space groups and is not a numerical data compilation . 
The compounds are divided according to composition into seven categories . 
Part 2 , contains determinative tables for the identification of crystalline substances . 
These are arranged according to crystal system . 
There are formula and name indexes covering both parts . 
References for Part 1 , are given at the end and for Part 2 , in the tables . 
Publication and distribution : The present edition of crystal data ( A[fj] ) , published in 1954 as Memoir 60 of the Geological Society of America , is now out of print . 
The manuscript of the second edition will probably be ready by the end of 1960 . 
2-3 . 
Crystal Structures organization : The author of Crystal Structures is Ralph W.G. Wyckoff , University of Arizona , Tucson , Arizona . 
The first section of this publication appeared in 1948 and the last supplement in 1960 . 
Though now complete , the publication is included in this directory because of its importance and because of the long-term nature of its preparation . 
Substances : Elements , inorganic and organic compounds ( no alloys ) . 
Properties : The data presented are derived almost entirely from X-ray diffraction measurements and include atomic coordinates , cell dimensions , and atomic and ionic radii . 
Sources of data : Published literature . 
Criticality : The aim was to state the results of all available determinations of atomic positions in crystals . 
Presumably the tabulated data are best available values . 
The critical comments in the textual sections of this publication are invaluable . 
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants : The terminology used conforms to that of Internationale Tabellen Zur Bestimmung Von Kristallstrukturen . 
Currency : During the years of publication , supplement and replacement sheets were issued periodically . 
Coverage of the literature extends through 1954 and includes some 1955 references . 
It is to be hoped that some way will be found to keep this important work current . 
Format : The publication form is that of loose-leaf sheets ( A[fj] ) contained in binders . 
The book is divided into chapters and in each chapter the material is grouped into Text , Tables , Illustrations , and Bibliography . 
Each group is paginated separately ; ; numbers sometimes followed by letters are used so that insertions can be made . 
Inorganic structures are found in Chapters 2 - 12 , organic structures in Chapters 13 - 15 . 
Within each chapter an effort has been made to group together those crystals with similar structures . 
There are three indexes , i.e. , an inorganic formula index , a mineralogical name index , and a name index to organic compounds . 
Publication and distribution : Publisher of Crystal Structures is Interscience Publishers , 250 Fifth Avenue , New York 1 , N. Y. . The work consists of four sections and 5 supplements . 
Price of the complete work including all necessary binders is $ 148.50 . 
2-4 . 
Dana 's System Of Mineralogy organization : Six editions of James Dwight Dana 's System appeared between 1837 and 1892 . 
In 1915 Edward S. Dana , editor of the sixth edition , asked W.E. Ford of Yale University to prepare a seventh edition of his father 's work . 
A number of people became involved in the preparation but work was slow until 1937 . 
In that year a grant was obtained from the Penrose Fund of the Geological Society of America to finance additional full-time workers . 
Money was also advanced by the publishers , John Wiley & Sons , Inc. . Volume 1 , was completed in 1941 and published in 1944 . 
The editors of this volume and Volume 2 , were the late Charles Palache , Clifford Frondel , and the late Harry Berman , all of Harvard University . 
Work on Volume 2 , was begun in 1941 , interrupted by the war in 1942 , and resumed in 1945 . 
The volume was completed in 1950 and published in 1951 . 
A supplementary grant from the Geological Society of America helped finance its publication . 
Besides the editors there were many contributors in the United States and Great Britain to Volumes 1 , and 2 . 
W.E. Ford , for example , continued to supply data on the occurrence of minerals until his death in 1939 . 
Volume 3 , is nearing completion and there are plans to revise Volume 1 . 
The project is currently supported by Harvard University . 
Substances : minerals . 
Properties : Crystallographic , physical , optical , and chemical properties . 
The crystallographic data given include interaxial angles and unit cell dimensions ; ; the physical property values include hardness , melting point , and specific gravity . 
Sources of data : Almost entirely original articles in journals ; ; abstracts and other compilations on rare occasions when original papers are not available . 
Criticality : All information is carefully appraised and uncertain facts are designated by ( ' ? 
' . 
) An authentic diffraction pattern is always obtained and optical properties are frequently checked . 
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants : Recommendations of international authorities , such as the International Union of Crystallography , are followed . 
There is a complete synonymy at the beginning of each species description . 
Currency : Currency in the usual sense can not be maintained in an undertaking of this sort . 
Format : The data are presented in text and tables in bound volumes . 
Volume 1 , of the seventh edition contains an introduction and data for eight classes of minerals ; ; Volume 2 , contains data for forty-two classes . 
References are given at the end of each mineral description and a general index is given at the end of each volume . 
There will be a comprehensive index in Volume 3 , covering all three volumes . 
Publication and distribution : Volume 1 ( ( A[fj] ) of the seventh edition of Dana 's System Of Mineralogy was published in 1944 and Volume 2 ( ( A[fj] ) in 1951 by John Wiley & Sons , Inc. , New York , N. Y. . ( The association of Wiley & Sons with the Dana Mineralogies dates back to 1844 when they published the second edition of the system . 
) The two volumes are available from the publisher for $ 14.00 and $ 16.00 , respectively . 
2-5 . 
The Groth Institute organization : " The Groth Institute " , which was established in 1958 , is a group activity affiliated with the Physics Department of The Pennsylvania State University , University Park , Pa. . Ray Pepinsky is the Director . 
The Institute derives its name from Paul Von Groth 's Chemische Krystallographie , a five-volume work which appeared between 1906 and 1919 . 
The resident staff is large and consists of professional assistants , graduate students , abstractors , librarian , technical editor , machine operators , secretarial help , and others . 
There are also corresponding members and outside advisory groups . 
The Air Force Office of Scientific Research has provided financial assistance in the early stages of the Institute 's program . 
Substances : All crystalline substances and other solid-state materials . 
Properties : The aim is to collect a very broad range of physical , chemical , morphological , and structural data for crystals on an encyclopedic scale and to seek all possible useful and revealing correlations of properties with internal structure . 
Sources of data : The first stage of operation has centered on the literature imaging of critical or summarizing tabulations such as the Barker Index . 
Coverage of primary literature will follow . 
Unpublished data will be available to the Groth institute from cooperating groups and individuals . 
Criticality : Critical evaluation of all data compiled is not a primary aim of this project . 
However , the proposed correlation of the many interrelated properties of crystals will reveal discrepancies in the recorded data and suggest areas for reinvestigation . 
In addition , the availability of computers will permit recalculation and refinement of much structural information . 
Use of nomenclature , symbols , units , physical constants : For punched-card or tape storage of information all literature values must be conformed to a common language . 
In this way a degree of unification of nomenclature , symbols , and units will be realized . 
