I would not want to be one of those writers who begin each morning by exclaiming , " O Gogol , O Chekhov , O Thackeray and Dickens , what would you have made of a bomb shelter ornamented with four plaster-of-Paris ducks , a birdbath , and three composition gnomes with long beards and red mobcaps " ? ? 
As I say , I would n't want to begin a day like this , but I often wonder what the dead would have done . 
But the shelter is as much a part of my landscape as the beech and horse-chestnut trees that grow on the ridge . 
I can see it from this window where I write . 
It was built by the Pasterns , and stands on the acre of ground that adjoins our property . 
It bulks under a veil of thin , new grass , like some embarrassing fact of physicalness , and I think Mrs. Pastern set out the statuary to soften its meaning . 
It would have been like her . 
She was a pale woman . 
Sitting on her terrace , sitting in her parlor , sitting anywhere , she ground an axe of self-esteem . 
Offer her a cup of tea and she would say , " Why , these cups look just like a set I gave to the Salvation Army last year " . 
Show her the new swimming pool and she would say , slapping her ankle , " I suppose this must be where you breed your gigantic mosquitoes " . 
Hand her a chair and she would say , " Why , it 's a nice imitation of those Queen Anne chairs I inherited from Grandmother Delancy " . 
These trumps were more touching than they were anything else , and seemed to imply that the nights were long , her children ungrateful , and her marriage bewilderingly threadbare . 
Twenty years ago , she would have been known as a golf widow , and the sum of her manner was perhaps one of bereavement . 
She usually wore weeds , and a stranger watching her board a train might have guessed that Mr. Pastern was dead , but Mr. Pastern was far from dead . 
He was marching up and down the locker room of the Grassy Brae Golf Club shouting , " Bomb Cuba ! ! 
Bomb Berlin ! ! 
Let 's throw a little nuclear hardware at them and show them who 's boss " . 
He was brigadier of the club 's locker-room light infantry , and at one time or another declared war on Russia , Czechoslovakia , Yugoslavia , and China . 
It all began on an autumn afternoon -- and who , after all these centuries , can describe the fineness of an autumn day ? ? 
One might pretend never to have seen one before , or , to more purpose , that there would never be another like it . 
The clear and searching sweep of sun on the lawns was like a climax of the year 's lights . 
Leaves were burning somewhere and the smoke smelled , for all its ammoniac acidity , of beginnings . 
The boundless blue air was stretched over the zenith like the skin of a drum . 
Leaving her house one late afternoon , Mrs. Pastern stopped to admire the October light . 
It was the day to canvass for infectious hepatitis . 
Mrs. Pastern had been given sixteen names , a bundle of literature , and a printed book of receipts . 
It was her work to go among her neighbors and collect their checks . 
Her house stood on a rise of ground , and before she got into her car she looked at the houses below . 
Charity as she knew it was complex and reciprocal , and almost every roof she saw signified charity . 
Mrs. Balcolm worked for the brain . 
Mrs . 
Ten Eyke did mental health . 
Mrs. Trenchard worked for the blind . 
Mrs. Horowitz was in charge of diseases of the nose and throat . 
Mrs. Trempler was tuberculosis , Mrs. Surcliffe was Mothers ' March of Dimes , Mrs. Craven was cancer , and Mrs. Gilkson did the kidney . 
Mrs. Hewlitt led the birthcontrol league , Mrs. Ryerson was arthritis , and way in the distance could be seen the slate roof of Ethel Littleton 's house , a roof that signified gout . 
Mrs. Pastern undertook the work of going from house to house with the thoughtless resignation of an honest and traditional laborer . 
It was her destiny ; ; it was her life . 
Her mother had done it before her , and even her old grandmother , who had collected money for smallpox and unwed mothers . 
Mrs. Pastern had telephoned most of her neighbors in advance , and most of them were ready for her . 
She experienced none of the suspense of some poor stranger selling encyclopedias . 
Here and there she stayed to visit and drink a glass of sherry . 
The contributions were ahead of what she had got the previous year , and while the money , of course , was not hers , it excited her to stuff her kit with big checks . 
She stopped at the Surcliffes ' after dusk , and had a Scotch-and-soda . 
She stayed too late , and when she left , it was dark and time to go home and cook supper for her husband . 
" I got a hundred and sixty dollars for the hepatitis fund " , she said excitedly when he walked in . 
" I did everybody on my list but the Blevins and the Flannagans . 
I want to get my kit in tomorrow morning -- would you mind doing them while I cook the dinner " ? ? 
" But I do n't know the Flannagans " , Charlie Pastern said . 
" Nobody does , but they gave me ten last year " . 
He was tired , he had his business worries , and the sight of his wife arranging pork chops in the broiler only seemed like an extension of a boring day . 
He was happy enough to take the convertible and race up the hill to the Blevins ' , thinking that they might give him a drink . 
But the Blevins were away ; ; their maid gave him an envelope with a check in it and shut the door . 
Turning in at the Flannagans ' driveway , he tried to remember if he had ever met them . 
The name encouraged him , because he always felt that he could handle the Irish . 
There was a glass pane in the front door , and through this he could see into a hallway where a plump woman with red hair was arranging flowers . 
" Infectious hepatitis " , he shouted heartily . 
She took a good look at herself in the mirror before she turned and , walking with very small steps , started toward the door . 
" Oh , please come in " , she said . 
The girlish voice was nearly a whisper . 
She was not a girl , he could see . 
Her hair was dyed , and her bloom was fading , and she must have been crowding forty , but she seemed to be one of those women who cling to the manners and graces of a pretty child of eight . 
" Your wife just called " , she said , separating one word from another , exactly like a child . 
" And I am not sure that I have any cash -- any money , that is -- but if you will wait just a minute I will write you out a check if I can find my checkbook . 
Wo n't you step into the living room , where it 's cozier " ? ? 
A fire had just been lighted , he saw , and things had been set out for drinks , and , like any stray , his response to these comforts was instantaneous . 
Where was Mr. Flannagan , he wondered . 
Travelling home on a late train ? ? 
Changing his clothes upstairs ? ? 
Taking a shower ? ? 
At the end of the room there was a desk heaped with papers , and she began to riffle these , making sighs and and noises of girlish exasperation . 
" I am terribly sorry to keep you waiting " , she said , " but wo n't you make yourself a little drink while you wait ? ? 
Everything 's on the table " . 
" What train does Mr. Flannagan come out on " ? ? 
" Mr. Flannagan is away " , she said . 
Her voice dropped . 
" Mr. Flannagan has been away for six weeks . 
" " I 'll have a drink , then , if you 'll have one with me " . 
" If you will promise to make it weak " . 
" Sit down " , he said , " and enjoy your drink and look for your checkbook later . 
The only way to find things is to relax " . 
All in all , they had six drinks . 
She described herself and her circumstances unhesitatingly . 
Mr. Flannagan manufactured plastic tongue depressors . 
He travelled all over the world . 
She did n't like to travel . 
Planes made her feel faint , and in Tokyo , where she had gone that summer , she had been given raw fish for breakfast and so she had come straight home . 
She and her husband had formerly lived in New York , where she had many friends , but Mr. Flannagan thought the country would be safer in case of war . 
She would rather live in danger than die of loneliness and boredom . 
She had no children ; ; she had made no friends . 
" I 've seen you , though , before " , she said with enormous coyness , patting his knee . 
" I 've seen you walking your dogs on Sunday and driving by in the convertible . 
" The thought of this lonely woman sitting at her window touched him , although he was even more touched by her plumpness . 
Sheer plumpness , he knew , is not a vital part of the body and has no procreative functions . 
It serves merely as an excess cushion for the rest of the carcass . 
And knowing its humble place in the scale of things , why did he , at this time of life , seem almost ready to sell his soul for plumpness ? ? 
The remarks she made about the sufferings of a lonely woman seemed so broad at first that he did n't know what to make of them , but after the sixth drink he put his arm around her and suggested that they go upstairs and look for her checkbook there . 
" I 've never done this before " , she said later , when he was arranging himself to leave . 
Her voice shook with feeling , and he thought it lovely . 
He did n't doubt her truthfulness , although he had heard the words a hundred times . 
" I 've never done this before " , they always said , shaking their dresses down over their white shoulders . 
" I 've never done this before " , they always said , waiting for the elevator in the hotel corridor . 
" I 've never done this before " , they always said , pouring another whiskey . 
" I 've never done this before " , they always said , putting on their stockings . 
On ships at sea , on railroad trains , in summer hotels with mountain views , they always said , " I 've never done this before " . 
" Where have you been " ? ? 
Mrs. Pastern asked sadly , when he came in . 
" It 's after eleven " . 
" I had a drink with the Flannagans " . 
" She told me he was in Germany " . 
" He came home unexpectedly " . 
Charlie ate some supper in the kitchen and went into the TV room to hear the news . 
" Bomb them " ! ! 
He shouted . 
" Throw a little nuclear hardware at them ! ! 
Show them who 's boss " ! ! 
But in bed he had trouble sleeping . 
He thought first of his son and daughter , away at college . 
He loved them . 
It was the only meaning of the word that he had ever known . 
Then he played nine imaginary holes of golf , choosing his handicap , his irons , his stance , his opponents , and his weather in detail , but the green of the links seemed faded in the light of his business worries . 
His money was tied up in a Nassau hotel , an Ohio pottery works , and a detergent for window-washing , and luck had been running against him . 
His worries harried him up out of bed , and he lighted a cigarette and went to the window . 
In the starlight he could see the trees stripped of their leaves . 
During the summer he had tried to repair some of his losses at the track , and the bare trees reminded him that his pari-mutuel tickets would still be lying , like leaves , in the gutters near Belmont and Saratoga . 
Maple and ash , beech and elm , one hundred to win on Three in the fourth , fifty to win on Six in the third , one hundred to win on Two in the eighth . 
Children walking home from school would scuff through what seemed to be his foliage . 
Then , getting back into bed , he thought unashamedly of Mrs. Flannagan , planning where they would next meet and what they would do . 
There are , he thought , so few true means of forgetfulness in this life that why should he shun the medicine even when the medicine seemed , as it did , a little crude ? ? 
