But they all said , " No , your time will come . 
Enjoy being a bride while you can " . 
There was no room for company in the tiny Weaning House ( where the Albright boys always took their brides , till they could get a house and a farm of their own ) . 
So when the Big House filled up and ran over , the sisters-in-law found beds for everyone in their own homes . 
And there was still not anything that Linda Kay could do . 
So Linda Kay gave up asking , and accepted her reprieve . 
Without saying so , she was really grateful ; ; for to attend the dying was something she had never experienced , and certainly had not imagined when she thought of the duties she would have as Bobby Joe 's wife . 
She had made curtains for all the windows of her little house , and she had kept it spotless and neat , shabby as it was , and cooked good meals for Bobby Joe . 
She had done all the things she had promised herself she would do , but she had not thought of this . 
People died , she would have said , in hospitals , or in cars on the highway at night . 
Bobby Joe was gone all day now , not coming in for dinner and sometimes not for supper . 
When they first married he had been working in the fields all day , and she would get in the car and drive to wherever he was working , to take him a fresh hot meal . 
Now there was no work in the fields , nor would there be till it rained , and she did not know where he went . 
Not that she complained , or had any cause to . 
Four or five of the cousins from East Texas were about his age , so naturally they ran around together . 
There was no reason for her to ask what they did . 
Thus a new pattern of days began to develop , for Granny Albright did not die . 
She lay still on the bed , her head hardly denting the pillow ; ; sometimes she opened her eyes and looked around , and sometimes she took a little milk or soup . 
They stopped expecting her to die the next minute , but only in the next day or two . 
Those who had driven hundreds of miles for the burial would not go home , for she might die any time ; ; but they might as well unpack their suitcases , for she might linger on . 
So the pattern was established . 
When Linda Kay had put up her breakfast dishes and mopped her linoleum rugs , she would go to the Big House . 
There was not anything she could do there , but that was where everyone was , or would be . 
Bobby Joe and the boys would come by , say " How 's Granny " ? ? 
And sit on the porch a while . 
The older men would be there at noon , and maybe rest for a time before they took their guns off to the creek or drove down the road towards town . 
The women and children stayed at the Albrights ' . 
The women , keeping their voices low as they worked around the house or sat in the living room , sounded like chickens shut up in a coop for the night . 
The children had to play away from the house ( in the barn loft or the pasture behind the barn ) , to maintain a proper quietness . 
Off and on , all day , someone would be wiping at the powdery gray dust that settled over everything . 
The evaporative cooler had been moved to Granny 's room , and her door was kept shut ; ; so that the rest of the house stayed open , though there was a question as to whether it was hotter or cooler that way . 
The dust clogged their throats , and the heat parched them , so that the women were always making ice water . 
They had cleaned up an old ice box and begun to buy fifty-pound blocks of ice in town , as the electric refrigerator came nowhere near providing enough ice for the crowds who ate and drank there . 
One afternoon , as the women sat clucking softly , a new carload of people pulled up at the gate . 
It was a Cadillac , black grayed with the dust of the road , its windows closed tight so you knew that the people who climbed out of it would be cool and unwrinkled . 
They were an old fat couple ( as Linda Kay described them to herself ) , a thick middle-aged man , and a girl about ten or twelve . 
There was much embracing , much exclaiming . 
" Cousin Ada ! ! 
Cousin John " ! ! 
" Cousin Lura " ! ! 
" Cousin Howard " ! ! 
" And how is she " ? ? 
" About the same , John , about the same " . 
All the women got up and offered their chairs , and when they were all seated again , the guests made their inquiries and their explanations . 
" We were on our vacation in Canada " , Howard explained , in a muffled voice that must have been used to booming , " and the news did n't catch up with us till we were nearly home . 
We came on as soon as we could " . 
There was the suggestion of ice water , and -- in spite of the protest " We 're not really thirsty " -- Linda Kay , to escape the stuffy air and the smothering soft voices , hurried to the kitchen . 
She filled a big pitcher and set it , with glasses , on a tray . 
Carrying it to the living room , she imagined the picture she made : tall and roundly slim , a bit sophisticated in her yellow sheath , with a graceful swingy walk that she had learned as a twirler with the school band . 
Almost immediately she was ashamed of herself for feeling vain , at such a time , in such a place , and she tossed back her long yellow hair , smiling shyly as she entered the room . 
Howard ( the thick middle-aged man ) was looking at her . 
She felt the look and looked back because she could not help it , seeing that he was neither as old nor as thick as she had at first believed . 
" And who is this " ? ? 
He asked , when she passed him a glass . 
" Oh that 's Linda Kay " , Mama Albright said fondly . 
" She married our baby boy , Bobby Joe , this summer " . 
" Let 's see " , Cousin Ada said . 
" He 's a right smart younger than the rest " ? ? 
" Oh yes " , Mama laughed . 
" He 's ten years younger than Ernest . 
We did n't expect him to come along ; ; thought for the longest he was a tumor " . 
This joke was not funny to Linda Kay , and she blushed , as she always did ; ; then , hearing the muffled boom of Howard 's laughter , blushed redder . 
" Who is Howard , anyway " ? ? 
She asked Bobby Joe that night . 
" He makes me uncomfortable " . 
" Oh he 's a second cousin or something . 
He got in the oil business out at Odessa and lucked into some money " . 
" How old is he " ? ? 
" Gosh , I do n't know . 
Thirty-five , I guess . 
He 's been married and got this half-grown kid . 
If he bothers you , do n't pay him any mind . 
He 's just a big windbag " . 
Bobby Joe was thinking about something else . 
" Say , did you know they 're fixing to have a two-day antelope season on the Double J " ? ? 
He was talking about antelope again when they woke up . 
" Listen , I never had a chance to kill an antelope . 
There never was a season before , but now they want to thin 'em out on account of the drouth " . 
" Did he ever visit here when he was a kid " ? ? 
Linda Kay asked . 
" Who " ? ? 
" Howard " . 
" Hell , I do n't know . 
When he was a kid I was n't around " . 
Bobby Joe took a gun from behind the door , and with a quick " Bye now " was gone for the day . 
Almost immediately Howard and his daughter Debora drove up in the Cadillac . 
" We 're going after ice " , Howard said , " and thought maybe you 'd go along and keep us company " . 
There was really no reason to refuse , and Linda Kay had never ridden in a Cadillac . 
Driving along the caliche-topped road to town , Howard talked . 
Finally he said , " Tell me about yourself " , and Linda Kay told him , because she thought herself that she had had an interesting life . 
She was such a well-rounded teenager , having been a twirler , Future Farmers sweetheart , and secretary of Future Homemakers . 
In her sophomore year she had started going steady with Bobby Joe , who was a football player , Future Homemakers sweetheart , and president of Future Farmers . 
It was easy to see that they were made for each other , and they knew what they wanted . 
Bobby Joe would be a senior this year , and he planned to graduate . 
But there was no need for Linda Kay to go on , since all she wanted in life was to make a home for Bobby Joe and ( blushing ) raise his children . 
Howard sighed . 
" You lucky kids " , he said . 
" I 'd give anything if I could have found a girl like you " . 
Then he told Linda Kay about himself . 
Of course he could n't say much , really , because of Debora , but Linda Kay could imagine what kind of woman his wife had been and what a raw deal he had got . 
It made her feel different about Howard . 
She was going to tell Bobby Joe about how mistaken she had been , but he brought one of the cousins home for supper , and all they did was talk about antelope . 
Bobby Joe was trying to get Linda Kay to say she would cook one if he brought it home . 
" Cook a whole antelope " ? ? 
She exclaimed . 
" Why , I could n't even cook a piece of antelope steak ; ; I never even saw any " . 
" Oh , you could . 
I want to roast the whole thing , and have it for the boys " . 
Linda Kay told him he could n't do anything like that with his Grandma dying , and he said well they had to eat , did n't they , they were n't all dying . 
Linda Kay felt like going off to the bedroom to cry ; ; but they were going up to the Big House after supper , and she had to put on a clean dress and fix her hair a little . 
Every night they all went to Mama and Papa Albright 's , and sat on the open front porch , where they could get the breeze . 
It was full-of-the-moon ( or a little past ) , and nearly light as day . 
They all sat around and drank ice water , and the men smoked , and everybody had a good time . 
Once in a while they said what a shame it was , with Granny dying , but they all agreed she would n't have wanted it any other way . 
That night the older men got to talking about going possum-hunting on a moonlight night . 
Bobby Joe and two or three of the other boys declared they had never been possum-hunting , and Uncle Bill Farnworth ( from Mama Albright 's side of the family ) said he would just get up from there and take them , right then . 
After they had left , some of the people moved around , to find more comfortable places to sit . 
There were not many chairs , so that some preferred to sit on the edge of the porch , resting their feet on the ground , and others liked to sit where they could lean back against the wall . 
Howard , who had been sitting against the wall , said he needed more fresh air , and took the spot on the edge of the porch where Bobby Joe had been sitting . 
" You 'll be a darn sight more comfortable there , Howard " , Ernest said , laughing , and they all laughed . 
Linda Kay felt that she was not exactly more comfortable . 
Bobby Joe had been sitting close to her , touching her actually , and holding her hand from time to time , but it seemed at once that Howard sat much closer . 
Perhaps it was just that he had so much more flesh , so that more of it seemed to come in contact with hers ; ; but she had never been so aware of anyone 's flesh before . 
Still she was not sorry he sat by her , but in fact was flattered . 
He had become the center of the company , such stories he had to tell . 
He had sold oil stock to Bob Hope and Bing Crosby in person ; ; he had helped fight an oil-well fire that raged six days and nights . 
