She was a child too much a part of her environment , too eager to grow and learn and experience . 
Once , they were at Easthampton for the summer ( again , Fritzie said , a good place , even though they were being robbed ) . 
One soft evening -- that marvelous sea-blessed time when the sun 's departing warmth lingers and a smell of spume and wrack haunts everything -- Amy had picked herself off the floor and begun to walk . 
Fritzie was on the couch reading ; ; Laura was sitting in an easy chair about eight feet away . 
The infant , in white terry-cloth bathrobe , her face intense and purposeful , had essayed a few wobbly steps toward her father . 
" Y'all wanna walk -- walk " , he said . 
Then , gently , he shoved her behind toward Laura . 
Amy walked -- making it halfway across the cottage floor . 
She lost not a second , picking herself up and continuing her pilgrimage to Laura . 
Then Laura took her gently and shoved her off again , toward Fritzie : Amy did not laugh -- this was work , concentration , achievement . 
In a few minutes she was making the ten-foot hike unaided ; ; soon she was parading around the house , flaunting her new skill . 
Some liar 's logic , a wisp of optimism as fragile as the scent of tropical blossoms that came through the window ( a euphoria perhaps engendered by the pill Fritzie had given her ) , consoled her for a moment . 
Amy had to be safe , had to come back to them -- if only to reap that share of life 's experiences that were her due , if only to give her parents another chance to do better by her . 
Through the swathings of terror , she jabbed deceit 's sharp point -- Amy would be reborn , a new child , with new parents , living under new circumstances . 
The comfort was short-lived , yet she found herself returning to the assurance whenever her imagination forced images on her too awful to contemplate without the prop of illusion . 
Gazing at her husband 's drugged body , his chest rising and falling in mindless rhythms , she saw the grandeur of his fictional world , that lush garden from which he plucked flowers and herbs . 
She envied him . 
She admired him . 
In the darkness , she saw him stirring . 
He seemed to be muttering , his voice surprisingly clear . 
" Y'all should have let me take that money out " , Andrus said . 
" 'nother minute I 'd have been fine . 
H'all should have let me do it " . 
Laura touched his hand . 
" Yes , I know , Fritzie . 
I should have " . 
Tuesday The heat intensified on Tuesday . 
Southern California gasped and blinked under an autumn hot spell , drier , more enervating , more laden with man 's contrived impurities than the worst days of the summer past . 
It could continue this way , hitting 106 and more in the Valley , Joe McFeeley knew , into October . 
He and Irvin Moll were sipping coffee at the breakfast bar . 
Both had been up since 7:00 -- Irv on the early-morning watch , McFeeley unable to sleep during his four-hour relief . 
The night before , they had telephoned the Andrus maid , Selena Masters , and she had arrived early , bursting her vigorous presence into the silent house with an assurance that amused McFeeley and confounded Moll . 
The latter , thanking her for the coffee , had winked and muttered , " Sure 'nuff , honey " . 
Selena was the wrong woman for these crudities . 
With a hard eye , she informed Moll : " Do n't sure 'nuff me , officer . 
I 'm honey only to my husband , understand " ? ? 
Sergeant Moll understood . 
The maid was very black and very energetic , trim in a yellow pique uniform . 
Her speech was barren of southernisms ; ; she was one of Eliot Sparling 's neutralized minorities , adopting the rolling R 's and constricted vowels of Los Angeles . 
Not seeing her dark intelligent face , one would have gauged the voice as that of a Westwood Village matron , ten years out of Iowa . 
After she had served the detectives coffee and toast ( they politely declined eggs , uncomfortable about their tenancy ) , she settled down with a morning newspaper and began reading the stock market quotations . 
While she was thus engaged , McFeeley questioned her about her whereabouts the previous day , any recollections she had of people hanging around , of overcurious delivery boys or repairmen , of strange cars cruising the neighborhood . 
She answered him precisely , missing not a beat in her scrutiny of the financial reports . 
Selena Masters , Joe realized , was her own woman . 
She was the only kind of Negro Laura Andrus would want around : independent , unservile , probably charging double what ordinary maids did for housework -- and doubly efficient . 
When the parents emerged from the bedroom a few minutes later , the maid greeted them quietly . 
" I 'm awful sorry about what 's happened " , Selena said . 
" Maybe today 'll be a good-news day " . 
She charged off to the bedrooms . 
Moll took his coffee into the nursery . 
During the night , a phone company technician had deadened the bells and installed red blinkers on the phones . 
Someone would have to remain in the office continually . 
McFeeley greeted the parents , then studied his notebook . 
He wanted to take the mother to headquarters at once and start her on the mug file . 
" Sleep well " ? ? 
He asked . 
Andrus did not answer him . 
His face was bloated with drugging , redder than normal . 
The woman had the glassy look of an invalid , as if she had not slept at all . 
" Oh -- we managed " , she said . 
" I 'm a little groggy . 
Did anything happen during the night " ? ? 
" Few crank calls " , McFeeley said . 
" A couple of tips we 're running down -- nothing promising . 
We can expect more of the same . 
Too bad your number is in the directory " . 
" Did n't occur to me my child would be kidnaped when I had it listed " , Andrus muttered . 
He settled on the sofa with his coffee , warming his hands on the cup , although the room was heavy with heat . 
The three had little to say to each other . 
The previous night 's horror -- the absolute failure , overcast with the intrusions of the press , had left them all with a wan sense of uselessness , of play-acting . 
Sipping their coffee , discussing the weather , the day 's shopping , Fritzie 's commitments at the network ( all of which he would cancel ) , they avoided the radio , the morning TV news show , even the front page of the Santa Luisa Register , resting on the kitchen bar . 
Kidnaper spurns ransom ; ; Amy still missing . 
Once , Andrus walked by it , hastily scanned the bold black headline and the five-column lead of the article ( by Duane Bosch , staff correspondent -- age not given ) , and muttered : " We a buncha national celebrities " . 
McFeeley told the parents he would escort them to police headquarters in a half hour . 
Before that , he wanted to talk to the neighbors . 
He did not want to bring the Andruses to the station house too early -- Rheinholdt had summoned a press conference , and he did n't want them subjected to the reporters again . 
He could think of nothing else to tell them : no assurances , no hopeful hints at great discoveries that day . 
When the detective left , Andrus phoned his secretary to cancel his work and to advise the network to get a substitute director for his current project . 
Mrs. Andrus was talking to the maid , arranging for her to come in every day , instead of the four days she now worked . 
Outside , only a handful of reporters remained . 
The bulk of the press corps was covering Rheinholdt 's conference . 
In contrast to the caravan of the previous night , there were only four cars parked across the street . 
Two men he did not recognize were sipping coffee and munching sweet rolls . 
He did not see Sparling , or DeGroot , or Ringel , or any of the feverish crew that had so harassed him twelve hours ago . 
However , the litter remained , augmented by several dozen lunchroom suppers . 
The street cleaner had not yet been around . 
One of the reporters called to him : " Anything new , Lieutenant " ? ? 
And he ignored him , skirting the parked cars and walking up the path to the Skopas house . 
When McFeeley was halfway to the door , the proprietor emerged -- a mountainous , dark man , his head thick with resiny black hair , his eyes like two of the black olives he imported in boatloads . 
McFeeley identified himself . 
The master of the house , his nourished face unrevealing , consented to postpone his departure a few minutes to talk to the detective . 
Inside , as soon as Mr. Skopas had disclosed -- in a hoarse whisper -- the detective 's errand , his family gathered in a huddle , forming a mass of dark flesh on and around a brocaded sofa which stood at one side of a baroque fireplace . 
Flanked by marble urns and alabaster lamps , they seemed to be posing for a tribal portrait . 
It was amazing how they had herded together for protection : an enormous matriarch in a quilted silk wrapper , rising from the breakfast table ; ; a gross boy in his teens , shuffling in from the kitchen with a sandwich in his hands ; ; a girl in her twenties , fat and sullen , descending the marble staircase ; ; then all four gathering on the sofa to face the inquisitor . 
They answered him in monosyllables , nods , occasionally muttering in Greek to one another , awaiting the word from Papa , who restlessly cracked his knuckles , anxious to stuff himself into his white Cadillac and burst off to the freeway . 
No , they had n't seen anyone around ; ; no , they did n't know the Andrus family ; ; yes , they had read about the case ; ; yes , they had let some reporters use their phone , but they would no longer . 
They offered no opinions , volunteered nothing , betrayed no emotions . 
Studying them , McFeeley could not help make comparison with the Andrus couple . 
The Skopas people seemed to him of that breed of human beings whose insularity frees them from tragedy . 
He imagined they were the kind whose tax returns were never examined ( if they were , they were never penalized ) , whose children had no unhappy romances , whose names never knew scandal . 
The equation was simple : wealth brought them happiness , and their united front to the world was their warning that they meant to keep everything they had , let no one in on the secrets . 
By comparison , Fritzie and Laura Andrus were quivering fledglings . 
They possessed no outer fortifications , no hard shells of confidence ; ; they had enough difficulty getting from day to day , let alone having an awful crime thrust upon them . 
Skopas expressed no curiosity over the case , offered no expression of sympathy , made no move to escort McFeely to the door . 
All four remained impacted on the sofa until he had left . 
He had spoken to Mrs. Emerson the previous day . 
There remained a family named Kahler , owners of a two-story Tudor-style house on the south side of the Andrus home . 
Their names had not come up in any discussions with Laura , and he had no idea what they would be like . 
McFeeley noted the immaculate lawn and gardens : each blade of grass cropped , bright and firm ; ; each shrub glazed with good health . 
The door was answered by a slender man in his sixties -- straight-backed , somewhat clerical in manner , wearing rimless glasses . 
When Joe identified himself , he nodded , unsmiling , and ushered him into a sedate living room . 
Mrs. Kahler joined them . 
She had a dried-out quality -- a gray , lean woman , not unattractive . 
Both were dressed rather formally . 
The man wore a vest and a tie , the woman had on a dark green dress and three strands of pearls . 
" Funny thing " , Mr. Kahler said , when they were seated , " when I heard you ringing , I figured it was that guy down the block , Hausman " . 
McFeeley looked puzzled . 
Kahler continued : " I fixed his dog the other day and I guess he 's sore , so I expected him to come barging in " . 
Mr. Kahler went on to explain how Hausman 's fox terrier had been " making " in his flower beds . 
The dog refused to be scared off , so Kahler had purchased some small firecrackers . 
He would lay in wait in the garage , and when the terrier came scratching around , he 'd let fly with a cherry bomb . 
" Scared the hell out of him " , Kahler grinned . 
" I hit him in the ass once " . 
Both grinned at the detective . 
" Finally , all I needed was to throw a little piece of red wood that looked like a firecracker and that dumb dog would run ki-yi-ing for his life " . 
