Beckworth handed the pass to the colonel . 
He had thought that the suggestion of taking it himself would tip the colonel in the direction of serving his own order , but the slip of paper was folded and absently thrust into the colonel 's belt . 
Despite his yearning , the colonel would not go down to see the men come through the lines . 
He would remain in the tent , waiting impatiently , occupied by some trivial task . 
-- Beckworth . 
-- Sir ? ? 
-- Fetch me the copies of everything B and C companies have requisitioned in the last six months . 
-- The last six months , sir ? ? 
-- You heard me . 
There 's a lot of waste going on here . 
It 's got to stop . 
I want to take a look . 
This is no damned holiday , Beckworth . 
Get busy . 
-- Yes , sir . 
Beckworth left the tent . 
Below he could see the bright torches lighting the riverbank . 
He glanced back . 
The colonel crouched tensely on one of the folding chairs , methodically tearing at his thumbnail . 
The bombproof was a low-ceilinged structure of heavy timbers covered with earth . 
It stood some fifty paces from the edge of the bank . 
From the outside , it seemed no more than a low drumlin , a lump on the dark earth . 
A crude ladder ran down to a wooden floor . 
Two slits enabled observers to watch across the river . 
The place smelled strongly of rank , fertile earth , rotting wood and urine . 
The plank floor was slimed beneath Watson 's boots . 
At least the Union officer had been decent enough to provide a candle . 
There was no place to sit , but Watson walked slowly from the ladder to the window slits and back , stooping slightly to avoid striking his head on the heavy beams . 
In the corner was the soldier with the white flag . 
He stood stiffly erect , clutching the staff , his body half hidden by the limp cloth . 
Watson hardly looked at him . 
The man had come floundering aboard the flat-bottomed barge at the last instant , brandishing the flag of truce . 
Someone had hauled him over the side , and he had remained silent while they crossed . 
An officer with a squad of men had been waiting on the bank . 
The men in the boats had started yelling happily at first sight of the officer , two of them calling him Billy . 
When the boat had touched , the weaker ones and the two wounded men had been lifted out and carried away by the soldiers . 
Watson had presented his pouch and been led to the bombproof . 
The officer had told him that both lists must be checked . 
Watson had given his name and asked for a safe-conduct pass . 
The officer , surprised , said he would have to see . 
Watson had nodded absently and muttered that he would check the lists himself later . 
He had peered through the darkness at the rampart . 
The men he would take back across the river stood there , but he turned away from them . 
He wanted no part of the emotions of the exchange , no memory of the joy and gratitude that other men felt . 
He had hoped to be alone in the bombproof , but the soldier had followed him . 
Though Watson carefully ignored the man , he could not deny his presence . 
Perhaps it would be better to speak to him , since silence could not exorcise his form . 
Watson glanced briefly at him , seeing only a body rigidly erect behind the languid banner . 
-- We wo n't be too long . 
If my pass is approved , I may be a half hour . 
The soldier answered in a curious , muffled voice , his lips barely moving . 
Watson turned away and did not see the man 's knees buckle and his body sag . 
-- Yes , sir . 
He had acknowledged the man . 
It was easier to think now , Watson decided . 
The stiff figure in the corner no longer blocked his thoughts . 
He paced slowly , stooping , staring at the damp , slippery floor . 
He tried to order the words of the three Union officers , seeking to create some coherent portrait of the dead boy . 
But he groped blindly . 
His lack of success steadily eroded his interest . 
He stopped pacing , leaned against the dank , timbered wall and let his mind drift . 
A feeling of futility , an enervation of mind greater than any fatigue he had ever known , seeped through him . 
What in the name of God was he doing , crouched in a timbered pit on the wrong bank of the river ? ? 
Why had he crossed the dark water , to bring back a group of reclaimed soldiers or to skulk in a foul-smelling hole ? ? 
He grew annoyed and at the same time surprised at that emotion . 
He was conscious of a growing sense of absurdity . 
Hillman had written it all out , had n't he ? ? 
Was n't the report official enough ? ? 
What did he hope to accomplish here ? ? 
Hillman had ordered him not to leave the far bank . 
Prompted by a guilty urge , he had disobeyed the order of a man he respected . 
For what ? ? 
To tell John something he would find out for himself . 
The figure in the corner belched loudly , a deep , liquid eruption . 
Watson snorted and then laughed aloud . 
Exactly ! ! 
The soldier 's voice was muffled again , stricken with chagrin . 
He clutched the staff , and his dark eyes blinked apologetically . 
-- 'scuse me , sir . 
-- Let 's get out of here . 
Watson ran up the ladder and stood for a second sucking in the cool air that smelled of mud and river weeds . 
To his left , the two skiffs dented their sharp bows into the soft bank . 
The flat-bottomed boat swung slowly to the pull of the current . 
A soldier held the end of a frayed rope . 
Three Union guards appeared , carrying their rifles at ready . 
Watson stared at them curiously . 
They were stocky men , well fed and clean-shaven , with neat uniforms and sturdy boots . 
Behind them shambled a long column of weak , tattered men . 
The thin gray figures raised a hoarse , cawing cry like the call of a bird flock . 
They moved toward the skiffs with shocking eagerness , elbowing and shoving . 
Four men were knocked down , but did not attempt to rise . 
They crept down the muddy slope toward the waiting boats . 
The Union soldiers grounded arms and settled into healthy , indifferent postures to watch the feeble boarding of the skiffs . 
The crawling men tried to rise and fell again . 
No one moved to them . 
Watson watched two of them flounder into the shallow water and listened to their voices beg shrilly . 
In a confused , soaked and stumbling shift of bodies and lifting arms , the two men were dragged into the same skiff . 
The third crawling man forced himself erect . 
He swayed like a drunkard , his arms milling in slow circles . 
He paced forward unsteadily , leaning too far back , his head tilted oddly . 
His steps were short and stiff , and , with his head thrown back , his progress was a supercilious strut . 
He appeared to be peering haughtily down his nose at the crowded and unclean vessel that would carry him to freedom . 
He stalked into the water and fell heavily over the side of the flat-bottomed barge , his weight nearly swamping the craft . 
Watson looked for the fourth man . 
He had reached the three passive guards ; ; he crept in an incertain manner , patting the ground before him . 
The guards did not look at him . 
The figure on the earth halted , seemingly bewildered . 
He sank back on his thin haunches like a weary hound . 
Then he began to crawl again . 
Watson watched the creeping figure . 
He felt a spectator interest . 
Would the man make it or not ? ? 
If only there was a clock for him to crawl against . 
If he failed to reach the riverbank in five minutes , say , then the skiffs would pull away and leave him groping in the mud . 
Say three minutes to make it sporting . 
Still the guards did not move , but stood inert , aloof from the slow-scrambling man . 
The figure halted , and Watson gasped . 
The man began to creep in the wrong direction , deceived by a slight rise in the ground ! ! 
He turned slowly and began to crawl back up the bank toward the rampart . 
Watson raced for him , his boots slamming the soft earth . 
The guards came to life with astonishing menace . 
They spun and flung their rifles up . 
Watson gesticulated wildly . 
One man dropped to his knee for better aim . 
-- Let me help him , for the love of God ! ! 
The guards lowered their rifles and their rifles and peered at Watson with sullen , puzzled faces . 
Watson pounded to the crawling man and stopped , panting heavily . 
He reached down and closed his fingers on the man 's upper arm . 
Beneath his clutch , a flat strip of muscle surged on the bone . 
Watson bent awkwardly and lifted the man to his feet . 
Watson stared into a cadaverous face . 
Two clotted balls the color of mucus rolled between fiery lids . 
Light sticks of fingers , the tips gummy with dark earth , patted at Watson 's throat . 
The man 's voice was a sweet , patient whisper . 
-- Henry said that he 'd take my arm and get me right there . 
But you ai n't Henry . 
-- no . 
-- It do n't matter . 
Is it far ? ? 
How far could it be , Watson thought bleakly , how far can a blind man crawl ? ? 
Another body length or all the rest of his nighted life ? ? 
-- Not far . 
-- You talk deep . 
Not like us fellas . 
It raises the voice , bein in camp . 
You Secesh ? ? 
-- yes . 
Come on , now . 
Can you walk ? ? 
-- Why , course I can . 
I can walk real good . 
Watson stumbled down the bank . 
The man leaned his frail body against Watson 's shoulder . 
He was no heavier than a child . 
Watson paused for breath . 
The man wheezed weakly , his fetid breath beating softly against Watson 's neck . 
His sweet whisper came after great effort . 
-- Oh , Christ . 
I wish you was Henry . 
He promised to take me . 
-- hush . 
We 're almost there . 
Watson supported the man to the edge of the bank and passed the frail figure over the bow of the nearest skiff . 
The man swayed on a thwart , turning his ruined eyes from side to side . 
Watson turned away , sickened for the first time in many months . 
He heard the patient voice calling . 
-- Henry ? ? 
Where are you , Henry ? ? 
-- Make him lie down ! ! 
Watson snatched a deep breath . 
He had not meant to shout . 
He stood with his back to the skiff . 
The men mewed and scratched , begging to be taken away . 
Watson spoke bewilderedly to the dark night flecked with pine-knot torches . 
-- Goddamn you ! ! 
What do you do to them ? ? 
Intelligence jabbed at him accusingly . 
He was angry , sickened . 
He had not felt that during the afternoon . 
No , nor later . 
All his emotions had been inward , self-conscious . 
In war , on a night like this , it was only the outward emotions that mattered , what could be flung out into the darkness to damage others . 
Yes . 
That was it . 
He was sure of it . 
John 's type of man allowed this sort of thing to happen . 
What a fool he had been to think of his brother ! ! 
So Charles was dead . 
What did it matter ? ? 
His name had been crossed off a list . 
Already his cool body lay in the ground . 
What words had any meaning ? ? 
What had he thought of , to go to John , grovel and beg understanding ? ? 
To confess with a canvas chair as a prie-dieu , gouging at his heart until a rough and stupid hand bade him rise and go ? ? 
Men were slaughtered every day , tumbled into eternity like so many torn parcels flung down a portable chute . 
What made him think John had a right to witness his brother 's humiliation ? ? 
What right had John to any special consideration ? ? 
Was John better , more deserving ? ? 
To hell with John . 
Let him chafe with impatience to see Charles , rip open the note with trembling hands and read the formal report in Hillman 's beautiful , schoolmaster 's hand . 
John would curse . 
He believed that brave boys did n't cry . 
Watson spat on the ground . 
He was grimly satisfied . 
He had stupidly thought himself compelled to ease his brother 's pain . 
Now he knew perfectly that he had but longed to increase his own suffering . 
