If the crummy bastard could write ! ! 
That 's how it should be . 
It 's those two fucken niggers ! ! 
Krist , I wish they could write ! ! 
Nigger pussy . 
He thought of sweet wet nigger pussy . 
Oh , sweet land of heaven , haint there just nothin like sweet nigger pussy ! ! 
He thought of her , the first one . 
He had caught her coming out of the shack . 
She was a juicy one . 
Oh how they bounced ! ! 
Fresh , warm , sweet and juicy , sweet lovin sixteen , she was . 
Man , how I love nigger pussy ! ! 
The snow came a little faster now , he noted . 
He thought of Joe Harris , the nigger who had gone after his sister . 
He chuckled , the memory vivid . 
Jee-sus , We Fixed him ! ! 
Yooee , we fixed him ! ! 
The snow again . 
If only the fucken weather was n't so lousy ! ! 
Goddamn niggers , Lord . 
What I have to put up with ! ! 
Sonuvabitch , I ca n't figure out what in hell for they went and put niggers in my squad for . 
Only one worth a shit , and that 's Brandon . 
He ai n't so bad . 
His thoughts turned to other things . 
The big shock everybody had when they found ol Slater and those others done for . 
Kaboom for . 
He had been pretty scared himself , wondering what the hell was coming off . 
But he soon saw which way the ball was bouncing . 
Soon came back to his senses . 
" I soon came back to my senses " , he said , aloud , to the young blizzard , proudly , drawing himself up , as if making a report to some important superior . 
I was the first to get my squad on the ball , and anybody thinkin it was easy is pretty damn dumb . 
Look at thum . 
That goddamn redheader was the worst . 
He kept sayin , not me , not me , I do n't wanta wind up like em . 
But I told him , goddammit . 
" I told him " , he said aloud They 'll get the guys that done it . 
That 'll put the place back to normal . 
Normal , by God . 
Maybe it 's a good thing it happened . 
Maybe they 'll stop it now , once for all . 
Clean the place up . 
They 're doin it now . 
I hear the whole bunch is croakin out in the snow . 
They 'll get the guys that done it . 
There was something troubling him though : as yet they had n't Five days . 
Keerist . 
Prickly twinges of annoyance ran through him . 
His eyes blinked hard , snapping on and squashing some bad things that were trying to push their way into him . 
A tune began to whirl inside his head . 
One of his favorites : " Guitar Boogie " . 
It always came on , faithfully , just like a radio or juke box , whenever he started to worry too much about something , when the bad things tried to push their way into him . 
The music drove them off , or away , and he was free to walk on air in a very few moments , humming and jiving within , beating the rhythm within . 
He glowed with anticipation about what would happen to the culprits when they caught them . 
Turn the bastards over to me -- to me and my boys -- no nigger ever got what would be comin to them -- reactionary bastards . 
He had never heard the word reactionary before his life as a POW began . 
It was a word he was proud of , a word that meant much to him , and he used it with great pleasure , almost as if it were an exclusive possession , and more : he sensed himself to be very highly educated , four cuts above any of the folks back home . 
" Four cuts at least " , he chuckled to himself , " and I owe it all to them " . 
The word also made him feel hate , sincere hate , for those so labeled . 
He used it very effectively when he wanted to get his squad on the ball . 
It came up again and again in the discussion sessions . 
Lousy Reactionary bastards been tryin to fuck up the Program for months . 
Months . 
Hired , hard lackeys of the Warmongering capitalists . 
Not captured , sent here . 
To fuck up the program . 
You guys remember that . 
Remember that He heard himself haranguing them . 
He saw himself before them delivering the speech . 
He laughed , suddenly , feeling a surge of power telling him of his hold over them , seeing himself before them , receiving utmost respect and attention . 
One day , Ching had told him ( smiling , patting him on the back ) as they walked to the weekly conference of squad leaders , " Keep it up , your squad is good , one of the best , keep it up , keep up the good work " . 
He would ! ! 
That was really something , coming from Ching . 
" Really something " , he said , aloud . 
Dirty Reactionary bastards comin down here in the night and bumpin off ol Slater and those other poor bastards . 
" They 'll get them by God and let them bring them down here to me , just let them , God , I 'll slice their balls right off . 
" His arm moved swiftly , violently , once , twice . 
He felt intense satisfaction . 
He was tingling within . 
Before him , mutilated , bleeding to death , they lay . 
It was as if it had been done . 
" Bastards " , he said aloud , spitting on them . 
He halted , and looked around . 
Rivers of cold sweat were suddenly unleashed within him . 
The thought came back , the one nagging at him these past four days . 
He tried to stifle it . 
But the words were forming . 
He knew he could n't . 
He braced himself . 
Somebody 'll haf ta start thinkin . 
He fought it , seeking to kill the last few words , but on they came out . 
He was trembling , a strange feeling upon him , fully expecting some catastrophe to strike him dead on the spot . 
But it did n't . 
And he took heart ; ; the final word came forth . 
Now he heard it , fully ; ; " bout takin his place " He listened , waited , nothing happened . 
He felt good . 
His old self . 
The music arrived , taking him its rhythm . 
Stroked him , snaked all through him , the lyrics lifted him , took him from one magic isle to another , stopping briefly at each Brandon . 
He is good . 
Damn good . 
But a nigger . 
Johnson . 
Jesus , the guy says he is trying . 
But he is n't with it , not at all with it . 
When I talked to Ching about it , he said , Everyone can learn , if he is not a Reactionary or lazy . 
No one is stupid . 
That 's what he said . 
He oughta know . 
It is plain as hell Johnson is no reactionary . 
So you 're not tryin , Johnson , you bastard you . 
He looked over at him , lying there , asleep , and he felt a wave of revulsion . 
How he loathed him . 
Sleepy-eyed , soft-spoken Johnson , Biggest thorn in my side of the whole fucken squad . 
He was the guy what always goofed at Question Time . 
Why could n't they have dumped him off on someone else ? ? 
Why me ? ? 
Why did n't the damn Reactionaries bump him off ? ? 
Why Slater ? ? 
Like a particle drawn to a magnet he returned to that which was pressing so hard in his mind . 
The music surged up , but it failed to check it . 
Who is the man to take His place ? ? 
The guy with most on the Ball . 
Most on the ball . 
Handle men . 
Thoroughly Wised up . 
Knows the score With a supreme effort , he broke it off . 
He turned to the window again . 
A gnawing and gnashing within him . 
The snow was tumbling down furiously now . 
Huge glob-flakes hitting the ground , piling higher and higher . 
He stared at it , amazed , alarmed . 
The whole fucken sky 's cavin in ! ! 
Keeeerist ! ! 
Lookit it ! ! 
Cover the whole building , bury us all , by nightfall . 
Jesus ! ! 
Somebody , got to be somebody If I do n't put my two cents in soon , somebody else will I know they 're waitin only for one thing : for the bastards what done it to be nailed . 
Maybe they already got them . 
He was again tingling with pleasure , seeing himself clearly in Slater 's shoes . 
Top dog , sleeping and eating right there with the Staff . 
Ching , Tien , all of them . 
Top dog . 
Poor ol Slater . 
Jesus , imagine , the crummy bastards , they 'll get em , they 'll get what 's comin to em . 
He whirled about suddenly . 
It was nothing , though his heart was thumping wildly . 
Somebody was up . 
That was all . 
" Boy , you 're stirrin early " , a sleepy voice said . 
" Yehhh " , said Coughlin , testily , eyeing him up and down . 
" Lookit that come down , willya " , said the man , scratching himself , yawning . 
" Yehhh " , said Coughlin , practically spitting on him . 
The man moved away . 
That 's the way . 
They 'll toe the line . 
Goddamn it . 
Keep the chatter to a minimum , short answers , one word , if possible . 
Less bull the more you can do with em . 
That 's Brown 's trouble . 
All he does is to bullshit with his squad , and they are the stupidest bastards around . 
Just about to get their asses kicked into hut Seven . 
Plenty of room there now . 
All those dumb 8-Balls croaked . 
You can do anything with these dumb fucks if you know how . 
Anything . 
They 'd cut their mothers ' belly open . 
Give um the works . 
See , he 's already snapping it up , the dumb jerk . 
Coughlin grinned , feeling supremely on top of things . 
He watched the snow once again . 
It infuriated him . 
It made no sense to him . 
He whirled around , suddenly hot all over , finding the man who had been standing before him a few moments back , nailing him to the spot on which he now stood , open-mouthed . 
" You , Listen ! ! 
-- name William Foster 's Four Internal Contradictions in Capitalism . 
Quick -- Quick -- now " ! ! 
The man shrank before the hot fury , searching frantically for the answer . 
Finnegan woke up . 
There was a hell of a noise this time of morning . 
He stared out the window . 
For Christ 's sake ! ! 
The whole fucken sky 's caved in ! ! 
He looked for the source of the noise that had awakened him . 
It was that prick Coughlin . 
What the hell was he up to now ? ? 
Why did n't he drop dead ? ? 
How did they miss him when they got Slater ? ? 
How ? ? 
Then he was asking himself the usual early morning questions : What the Hell am I doin here ? ? 
Is this a nut-house ? ? 
Am I nuts ? ? 
Is this for real ? ? 
Am I dreamin ? ? 
From somewhere in the hut came Coughlin 's voice . 
" How long did you study ? ? 
How long , buddy " ? ? 
" For Christ 's sake " ! ! 
A voice pleaded . 
" Do n't Christsake me , buddy ! ! 
Just answer . 
C'mon -- 'mon ! ! 
" I 'm no hero . 
Did I start the damn war ? ? 
Automatically , Finnegan started going over today 's lesson . 
Capitalism rots from the core . 
Did I start the damn war ? ? 
Who did ? ? 
That 's a good one . 
I thought I knew . 
Why do n't Uncle Sam mind his own fucken business ? ? 
I 'll bet both together did . 
I bet . 
So fuck them both . 
Goddamn . 
Goddammit . 
Just let me go home to Jersey , back to the shore , oh , Jesus , the shore . 
The waves breakin in on you and your girl at night there on the warm beach in the moonlight . 
If I haf ta do this to stay alive by God I 'll do it . 
I hated the goddamn army from the first day I got in anyhow . 
All pricks like Coughlin run it anyway , one way or another . 
Fuck them . 
He rolled over and tried to shut out the noise , now much louder . 
He snuggled into the blanket . 
Brandon dreamed . 
He was sitting on top of a log which was spinning round and around in the water . 
A river , wide as the Missouri , where it ran by his place . 
The log was spinning . 
But he was not . 
So what ? ? 
Why should I be spinning just because the goddamn log is spinning ? ? 
( he asked this out loud , but no one heard it over the other noise in the hut ) . 
Over on the bank , the west bank , a man stood , calling to him . 
He could n't make out what he was saying . 
No doubt it had to do with the log . 
Why should he be concerned ? ? 
