He put in a call to Cunningham from his hotel room . 
The maid answered and he decided Nancy must be at work . 
Jeb cautioned him not to be too hopeful and then , ignoring his own advice , said excitedly , " But it does sound good . 
A woman named Lisa who tells nobody anything about herself . 
That courtyard picture with the same initials " . 
" I 'm not exactly jumping up and down with enthusiasm . 
I 'll call you in a day or so " . 
On the highway he relaxed and enjoyed the drive over Lake Pontchartrain and along the coast . 
Gulf Springs was ten miles inland -- more of a quaint old coast town than those along the beach made garish by tourist attractions . 
He checked into a motel and drove downtown . 
The courthouse was a white-stucco building minus the customary dome . 
Instead of the usual straggling privet hedges and patches of bare dirt in most small-town squares , the building was hemmed in by a semitropical growth of camellias and azaleas and a smooth lawn the improbably bright-green shade of florist 's grass . 
He figured his best bet was a call on the sheriff . 
A clerk in the outer office took him in to Sheriff Carruthers , a big , paunchy man with thick , white hair and a voice with a senatorial resonance which suggested he should be running for higher office . 
Seated in front of the desk , Hank said , " I 'm looking for some information with very little to go on , Sheriff " . 
He explained the background of the case , ending with the tenuous clue which had brought him to Gulf Springs . 
The sheriff 's swivel chair tilted back . 
" So you 're looking for a woman who married a man who might have lived here a year ago and might have been poisoned . 
If there was such a person , I 'm afraid she got away with it . 
Pity we do n't know more about him . 
I think the best bet is to go through the society columns of last year and see if any of the grooms match with the obituaries a little later . 
It 'll be a tedious job , but if you want to try it , the old newspaper files are in the basement here in the county supervisor 's office " . 
" Maybe the society editor would remember a good-looking out-of-town bride " . 
" That 's an idea . 
Mrs. Calhoun has been society editor here for twenty-five years . 
The editor says that marriages may be made in heaven , but weddings are made in Mrs. Calhoun 's columns . 
She 's the one who decides which wedding is to get the lead space in the Sunday paper and all that " . 
He smiled . 
" Once , when the editor was just out of the hospital from a gallstone operation , Mrs. Calhoun and the mother of the bride went out to his house and fought it out beside his bed . 
She 'd be sure to remember any bride who was vague about background . 
She 'd have made a great scientist dedicated to tracking down heredity and environment . 
She 'd also remember if the groom died later " . 
He stood up . 
" I wish you good luck , but please do n't dig up too tough a case for me this close to election . 
If you find out anything , come on back here and we 'll get started on it " . 
Tracking down Mrs. Calhoun was like trying to catch up with Paul Revere between Lexington and Concord . 
It turned out that she also sold real estate , cosmetics , and hospital insurance . 
The wearying trek stretched into the afternoon -- from newspaper plant to insurance office to her house and back to the newspaper , where he found her at five o'clock . 
She was a large woman with a frizzled gray poodle cut and a pencil clamped like a bit between her teeth while she hunted and pecked on an old typewriter . 
It took a couple of minutes to run through her various businesses and get down to the one he wanted . 
" Last year ? ? 
Well , I do remember one . 
From Baton Rouge . 
Married a man named Vincent Black . 
I remember her because she did n't want her picture in the paper . 
First bride like that I 've seen in twenty-five years " . 
" What reason did she give " ? ? 
" Said she had a breaking-out on her face -- some sort of allergy -- and none of her old pictures was good enough . 
I did n't see her till several days later at the wedding , and her face looked like it had never had a blemish on it . 
But , of course , you could n't see too well through the veil " . 
" Was her name Lisa Carmody " ? ? 
" Now how in hell would I remember that " ? ? 
" Never mind . 
I can look it up . 
Do they still live here " ? ? 
" I think they moved away shortly after they were married . 
He was a salesman for something or other and must have been transferred . 
I 'm sure it 'll be in the files . 
We usually run a social note when somebody moves away " . 
He stood up and thanked her . 
" Have they inherited some money or something " ? ? 
She asked with a reportorial gleam in her eye . 
He said vaguely , " Well , it is a little legal matter , but nothing like that " . 
He hurried across to the courthouse and caught the sheriff just as he was leaving . 
" Sounds like what you 're after " , he said when Hank had finished . 
" Come on , let 's hurry down before they lock up for the day " . 
In the basement the sheriff took him to a small , dingy office occupied by a tall , thin man informal in rolled-up shirt sleeves . 
" Mr. Ferrell Hirey Lindsay , chairman of the board of supervisors . 
Mr. Ferrell is a private detective , Hirey . 
Wants to look up something in the newspaper files , so do n't lock him in here " . 
" Sure " , said Hirey . 
" I 'll just leave the door open . 
It latches when you close it , so stay as long as you like " . 
Carruthers crossed the room to a metal door with an open grillework in the top half . 
He pulled it open . 
" Now do n't shut this door . 
It wo n't open from inside . 
Before we built the new jail , we used to keep prisoners in here overnight sometimes when the old jail got too crowded . 
Hirey treats himself a lot better than we do prisoners . 
They were a sight more comfortable than the ones in the jail with the cold air from Hirey 's air conditioner coming through the grille " . 
He walked past the sheriff into a windowless room with shelves full of big , leather-bound volumes from floor to ceiling all around the walls . 
A metal table and four chairs stood in the center . 
" They 're all here , back to 1865 " , Carruthers told him . 
" It 's all right to smoke , but make sure your cigarettes are out before you leave . 
And , of course , you know not to take clippings " . 
" I 'll leave the air conditioner on for you , Mr. Ferrell " , said Hirey . 
" Do n't forget to turn it off and close the door good so it 'll latch " . 
Hank thanked them and promised to observe the rules . 
When they had gone , he stood for a minute breathing in the mustiness of old paper and leather which the busily thrumming air conditioner could n't quite dispel . 
Chapter fourteen In a tour around the stacks , he found that the earliest volumes began on the left and progressed clockwise around the room . 
An old weakness for burrowing in records rose up to tempt him . 
It was , indeed , all here -- almost a century . 
From reconstruction to moon rockets . 
But he pulled away from the irrelevant old volumes and walked around to the newer ones . 
Last year 's volume was at the top a couple of inches below the ceiling . 
Near it was a metal ladder on casters attached to the top shelf . 
He pulled it over , climbed up , and lifted out the big volume , almost losing his balance from the weight of it . 
He staggered over and dropped it on the table . 
Since Mrs. Calhoun remembered only that the marriage had been in the spring , he started to plod through several months . 
He tried to turn right to the society page in each one , but interesting stories kept cropping up to distract him . 
At last he found it in the paper of April 2 . 
It told him little more than Mrs. Calhoun had remembered , stating that it had been a small , modest wedding compared to some of the others . 
There was a marked contrast in the amount of information on bride and groom . 
Mr. Black 's life was an open book , so to speak , from his birth in Jackson , Mississippi , through his basketball-playing days at L.S.U. and his attainment of a B.A. degree , which had presumably prepared him for his career as district sales manager for Peerless Business Machines . 
The one line on the bride said she was Miss Lisa Carmody from Baton Rouge . 
No mention of New Orleans . 
Hank was beginning to feel sharp concern for Mr. Black . 
If Mrs. Black was who he thought she was , Mr. Black 's Peerless selling days might well be over . 
Now for their exodus from Gulf Springs . 
This time the search took twice as long , cutting down on his extra reading , for he had to pick through several columns of one - and two-line social notes in each issue . 
He found it in the edition of May 15 . 
The item said Mr. and Mrs. Black had moved to Jackson , his home town -- so the lovely Lisa had been with him a year ago . 
Next on his program was a call to the Jackson office of Peerless Business Machines to find out if Vincent Black was still with them -- or , more specifically , still with us . 
He glanced at his watch , saw it was only seven , and decided to indulge his weakness now . 
For the next hour he scrambled happily up and down the ladder , sharing the excitement of reporters who had seen McKinley 's assassination , the Iroquois Theater fire in Chicago , and the Hall-Mills trial . 
In the middle of the stock market crash , he heard a slight noise in the outer office . 
He turned around , saw nothing , and decided it must be a mouse . 
Something else distracted him , yet there was no sound , only tomblike silence . 
Then he knew it was not sound , but lack of it . 
The air conditioner was no longer running . 
He jumped up and turned around to see the metal door closing . 
It clanged shut as he sprang toward it . 
He pressed his face against the grille . 
" Who 's there " ? ? 
The light shining through the grille dimly illumined the office beyond -- enough for him to see there was no one there . 
Then he heard the outer door closing . 
" Hey , come back " , he shouted . 
He thought it must be some damn janitor or cleaning woman puttering around , figuring that Hirey had gone off and forgotten to turn off everything and lock up . 
Then the faint beginnings of fear stirred in his mind . 
Unless he was stone-blind , the person who 'd just left could n't have missed seeing Hank through the open door of the brightly lighted room . 
And even if he 'd somehow missed seeing him , he would n't have gone off and left the light on and door open in the file room . 
Whoever it was had meant to shut him up in here , had followed him and waited till the courthouse and square were deserted . 
But why ? ? 
To search his room at the motel ? ? 
To come back later and kill him after the stores had closed around the square and everybody had left ? ? 
No , they could kill him just as easy right now . 
Nobody could hear what was going on in this underground vault . 
Then he heard it and smelled it -- the steady hissing , the dread , familiar pungency of gas escaping . 
It must be coming from an upright heater against the far wall in the supervisors ' office . 
Until now , Lilac Gaylor and Lila Kingsley had been like an anagram which he could unscramble at his own pace and choosing . 
Except for those minutes in her room , he had lost touch with her as a reality . 
Gaylor 's obsession and Cunningham 's chimera-chasing reminiscences had mesmerized him into thinking of Lila and Lilac , separately or together , as a legend . 
They kept drifting apart and merging again in his mind like some minute form of life on a microscope slide . 
