" Dammit , Phil , are you trying to wreck my career ? ? 
Because that 's what you 're doing -- wrecking it , wrecking it , wrecking it " ! ! 
Griffith had confronted Hoag on the building 's front steps -- Hoag had been permitted no further -- and backed him against a wrought-iron railing . 
His rage had built up as he made his way here from the second floor , helped by the quantity of champagne he had consumed . 
Hoag said , " I did n't send for you , Leigh . 
I want the captain in charge . 
Where is he " ? ? 
" Phil , for God 's sake , go away . 
The undersecretary 's in there . 
I told you there 's nothing between Midge and me , nothing . 
It 's all in your mind " . 
A couple of sobs escaped him , followed by a sentiment that revealed his emotional state . 
" Why , I 'm not fit to touch the hem of her garment " . 
" Leigh , get a grip on yourself . 
It 's not about you or Midge . 
I have some security information about the prime minister " . 
Griffith looked at him suspiciously through red-rimmed eyes . 
" Not about me ? ? 
You mean it , Phil ? ? 
You would n't pull my leg , old man ? ? 
I did get you on the platform this morning " . 
" I 'm not pulling your leg . 
Will you call that captain " ? ? 
" No use , he wo n't come " . 
He peered closely at Hoag in the gathering darkness . 
" What happened to your head " ? ? 
" I was hit -- knocked out . 
Now will you get him " ? ? 
" He says I 'm to take the message " . 
He stared at Hoag drunkenly . 
" Who 'd hit you in the head " ? ? 
" It does n't matter . 
You get back to the captain and tell him this : Somebody 's going to take a shot at the prime minister , and Mahzeer is in on the plot . 
Tell him under no circumstances to trust the prime minister with Mahzeer " . 
Griffith said , " That 's impossible . 
Mahzeer 's the ambassador " . 
" Nevertheless it 's true " . 
" Impossible " . 
Griffith was trying to clear his head of the champagne fuzz that encased it . 
" I 'll show you how wrong you are . 
Mahzeer and the prime minister are alone right now " . 
He nodded triumphantly . 
" So that proves it " ! ! 
Hoag looked terrified . 
" Where are they " ? ? 
" Where 'd you expect , the john ? ? 
Mahzeer 's office " . 
" Where is that " ? ? 
" Facing us , two flights up . 
Look , old man , you ca n't go up . 
They wo n't even let you in the front door . 
So why do n't you be a good boy and " -- Hoag grabbed him by the shoulders . 
" Listen to me , Leigh . 
If you want to spend another day in the State Department -- another day -- you get in there and tell that captain what I told you " . 
He bit out the words . 
" And you know I can do it " . 
Griffith raised placating hands . 
" Easy does it , Phil . 
I was just going . 
I 'm on my way " . 
He turned and fled into the house and made his way up the marble stairs without once looking back . 
On the second landing he paused to look for Docherty , did n't see him , and accepted a glass of champagne . 
He took several large swallows , recollected that Docherty had gone up another flight , and decided he would be wise to cover himself by finding him . 
The way Hoag was , no telling what he might say or do . 
He finished his champagne and climbed uncertainly to the next landing . 
At the top a uniformed officer blocked further progress . 
" Yes , what is it " ? ? 
He asked . 
" I want Captain Docherty " . 
He spotted Docherty coming out of a room at the far end of the corridor and called to him . 
Docherty said , " It 's okay , Bonfiglio , let him by " . 
They walked toward each other . 
" Well " ? ? 
Griffith said , " Hoag told me to tell you " -- he waited until they were close ; ; it was hideously embarrassing -- " not to let the prime minister be alone with Mahzeer " . 
Griffith looked half-crocked to the captain ; ; it would be just like him . 
" Why not " ? ? 
" He claims Mahzeer 's in a plot to kill the P.M. " . Docherty went taut : was it possible ? ? 
Could the ambassador himself be the man on this side the prime minister feared ? ? 
Not possible , he thought ; ; the prime minister knew who his enemy was here ; ; he was n't going to allow himself to be led meekly to the slaughter . 
And if by some wild chance Mahzeer was the man , he would n't dare try anything now -- not after Docherty had looked in on the two of them to see that all was well . 
Docherty was damned if he would make a fool of himself again the way he had earlier over the laundry truck . 
One more muddleheaded play like that one and they 'd be leading him away . 
Still , this had to be checked out . 
" Where 'd your friend Hoag get his information " ? ? 
He asked . 
" Have n't the faintest , Captain " . 
" Would you mind sending him up here ? ? 
I 'd like to talk to him " . 
Troubled , he continued along the corridor , poking his head into the next office for a careful look around . 
But Hoag had not stayed on the front steps when Griffith disappeared into the building . 
He was unwilling to rely on Griffith 's carrying his message , and he had no confidence the police would act on it . 
If Mahzeer was alone with the prime minister he could be arranging his execution while Hoag stood out here shivering in the darkening street . 
He would have to do something on his own . 
But what ? ? 
The door opened and three men and a woman in a sari swept past him and down the stairs . 
In the lighted interior he saw other men and women struggling into their wraps . 
These were the early departures ; ; in half an hour the reception would be over . 
If Mahzeer was planning to set up the prime minister for Muller he would have to do it in the next few minutes . 
Hoag descended the stone steps to the street and looked up at the building . 
Wide windows with many small leaded panes swept across the upper stories . 
On the second floor he saw the animated faces of the party guests ; ; the scene looked like a Christmas card . 
On the third floor one of the two windows was lighted ; ; it was framed in maroon drapes , and no faces were visible . 
This would be Mahzeer 's office . 
He and the prime minister would be back from the window , seated at Mahzeer 's desk ; ; they would be going over papers Mahzeer had saved as excuse for just such a meeting . 
In a minute , or five minutes , the business would be done ; ; Mahzeer would stand up , the prime minister would follow . 
Mahzeer would direct the prime minister 's attention to something out the window and would guide him forward and then step to one side . 
The single shot would come ; ; Hoag would carry its sound to his grave . 
Mahzeer , of course , would be desolate . 
How was he to suspect that an assassin had been lurking somewhere across the street waiting for just such a chance ? ? 
Hoag turned . 
Where across the street ? ? 
Where was Muller waiting with the rifle ? ? 
Narrow four-story buildings ran the length of the block like books tightly packed on a shelf . 
Most of them could be eliminated ; ; Muller 's would have to be one of the half dozen almost directly opposite . 
The legation was generously set back from the building line ; ; if the angle of fire were too great the jutting buildings on either side would interfere . 
Would the shot come from a roof ? ? 
He ran his eye along the roof copings ; ; almost at once a figure bulked up . 
But dully glinting on the dark form were the buttons and badge of a policeman . 
With a cop patrolling the road Muller would have to be inside a building -- if he was here at all , and not waiting for the prime minister somewhere between this street and the terminal building at La Guardia Airport . 
Hoag crossed the narrow street , squeezing between parked cars to reach the sidewalk . 
From this side he could see farther into the legation 's third-story window , but he saw no faces ; ; the room 's occupants were still seated or they had been called into the hallway by an alarmed police captain . 
If only the latter were true . 
He walked rapidly along the buildings scanning their facades : one was a club -- that was out ; ; two others he ruled out because all their windows were lighted . 
That left three , possibly four , one looking much like the next . 
He climbed the steps of the first and opened the door to the vestibule . 
He quickly closed it again . 
He had assumed that all these buildings had been divided into apartments , but this one , from a glance at the hall furnishings , was obviously still a functioning town house , and its owners were in residence ; ; that made it doubtful as the hiding place of a man whose plans had to be made in advance . 
He went on to the next building and found what he expected -- the mingled cooking aromas of a public vestibule . 
On one wall was the brass front of a row of mailboxes ; ; there were six apartments . 
Now what ? ? 
The names on the mailboxes meant nothing to him . 
This was senseless -- he had no idea what to look for . 
He peered in the boxes themselves ; ; all were empty except one , and that one was jammed with letters and magazines . 
The occupants of Apartment Number 3 were probably away for a few days , and not likely to return on a Friday . 
Had Muller made the same deduction ? ? 
Muller was attracted to the lore of mailboxes . 
He opened the inner door ; ; the cooking odors were stronger -- all over the city , at this hour , housewives would be fussing over stoves . 
He climbed , as quickly as he could urge his body , up the two unbroken flights to the third floor , pulling himself along on a delicate balustrade , all that remained of the building 's beauty . 
He paused on the landing to steady his breathing and then bent to examine the single door by the light of the weak bulb overhead . 
Now he was certain : the lock had not yielded to Muller 's collection of keys ; ; fresh scars showed that the door had been prized open . 
It had been shut again , but the lock was broken ; ; he noted with a thrill of fear that the door moved under his touch . 
What was he to do now ? ? 
He had thought no further than finding Muller . 
He realized now he had more than half hoped he would n't find him -- that Muller would not be here , that the attempt would be scheduled for somewhere beyond Hoag 's control . 
He could not break in on an armed man . 
He would have to climb back down to the street and signal a cop . 
Was there time ? ? 
His thoughts were scattered by the sharp report of a rifle from the other side of the door . 
Hoag pushed open the door : at the far end of the long dark room Muller was faintly silhouetted against the window , the rifle still raised ; ; he stood with his feet apart on a kitchen table he had dragged to the sill . 
He turned his head to the source of the disturbance and instantly back to the window and his rifle sight , dismissing Hoag for the moment with the same contempt he had shown in their encounter at Hoag 's apartment . 
Hoag stretched his left hand to the wall and fumbled for the switch : evil flourishes in the dark . 
The room was bathed in light at the instant Muller 's second shot came . 
Muller , nakedly exposed at the bright window like a deer pinned in a car 's headlights , threw down the rifle and turned to jump from the table ; ; his face wore a look of outrage . 
A shot caught him and straightened him up in screaming pain ; ; a following volley of shots shattered glass , ripped the ceiling , and sent him lurching heavily from the table . 
He was dead before his body made contact with the floor . 
Hoag stumbled back into the hall , leaned against the wall , and started to retch . 
After Captain Docherty sent Arleigh Griffith for Hoag he was able to complete his detailed inspection of the third floor and to receive a report from his man covering the floors above before Griffith returned , buoyed up by a brief stop for another glass of champagne . 
