But the police have dropped the case . 
I want you to go to Pearson City and find out why -- first-hand stuff for your modern crime series . 
Take the same train Diana Beauclerk took and get there at the same time . 
Go to the same hotel and occupy the same suite -- 1105 " . 
" Will the hotel rent it so soon after the crime " ? ? 
" Why not ? ? 
The police have finished with it . 
Besides , the number of the suite has n't been published in any newspaper . 
To the hotel people , you 'll just be an innocent tourist who happens to ask for that particular suite " . 
" Still , they may not want to rent it " . 
" That 's your headache . 
Once inside , keep your eyes open " ! ! 
" For what " ! ! 
Alec was growing more and more skeptical . 
" The police will have gone over every square inch of the place with a fine-tooth comb . 
The hotel people will have scoured and vacuumed it . 
Ten to one , it 's even been redecorated " ! ! 
" There 's always a chance they may have overlooked something " , returned the chief . 
" I 'm betting on that chance . 
Interview the bellboy and chambermaid who waited on Beauclerk . 
Study the topography of the suite . 
Soak up local color . 
Reenact everything Beauclerk did . 
Try to imagine you 're going to be murdered yourself -- between eleven p.m. and one a.m. the night you arrive " . 
Alec smirked . 
" Cheerful way to spend an evening " ! ! 
A sudden thought wiped the smirk from his face . 
" Suppose the murderer should return to the scene of the crime " ! ! 
The chief 's eyes gleamed . 
He spoke softly . 
" That is exactly what I 'm hoping for . 
After all , the murderer is still at large . 
And the key to the suite is still missing " . 
On the train Alec refreshed his memory of the Beauclerk case by reading teletype flimsies -- spot-news stories about the crime sent out by the Pearson City Star , a member of the Syndicate Press . 
Diana Beauclerk was a second-rate actress living in New York . 
Two weeks ago she had gone west to Pearson City . 
Daniel Forbes , her divorced husband , lived there . 
So did the firm of lawyers who had got her the divorce , Kimball and Stacy . 
She reached Pearson City at nine p.m. and went straight to the Hotel Westmore . 
She telephoned the junior partner of her law firm , Martin Stacy , and asked him to call at her hotel that evening . 
At the time of her divorce Forbes had promised to pay her a lump sum in lieu of further alimony if she remarried . 
According to Stacy , she told him she was planning to remarry and she wanted him to ask Forbes for the lump sum . 
Stacy replied that it would bankrupt Forbes , who had just sunk all his money in a real estate venture . 
Stacy said he left her suite at nine forty-five p.m. . She was in good health and spirits , but still determined to get the money from Forbes . 
No one saw Stacy leave . 
No other visitor inquired for her that evening . 
Next morning she was found dead in her suite with a bullet from a Colt revolver in her brain . 
According to the medical examiner , she was shot between eleven p.m. and one a.m. . Her door was locked and the key was missing . 
So was the gun . 
When Alec finished reading he was sure that either Forbes or Stacy had killed Diana Beauclerk . 
Forbes had motive and Stacy had opportunity . 
Find a motive for Stacy or an opportunity for Forbes and the case would be solved . 
The Hotel Westmore proved to be one of the older hotels in Pearson City , and definitely second-rate . 
Alec 's first impression of the lobby was gloomy , Victorian dignity -- black walnut and red plush , a black and white tiled floor , and Persian rugs . 
He studied the night clerk as a man measures an adversary . 
" I 'd like the room I had the last time " . 
" Certainly , sir " . 
The clerk was young and limp , with a tired smile . 
" Do you recall the number " ? ? 
" It was 1105 " . 
The clerk 's smile congealed . 
" That suite is taken " . 
Alec 's glance went to a chart of guest names and room numbers hanging on the wall behind the clerk . 
Opposite the number 1105 stood one word : Unoccupied . 
The clerk 's glance followed Alec 's . 
" We have better rooms vacant now " , he babbled . 
" Larger and more comfortable . 
At the same rate " . 
Alec 's face was dark , blunt , and sulky . 
He always looked impertinent and he could look dangerous . 
He was looking dangerous now . 
He raised his voice . 
" Anything wrong with the plumbing in 1105 " ? ? 
There was a sudden stillness in the lobby . 
Two women , who had been chattering like parrots , were struck dumb . 
A man , lighting a match for his cigar , paused until the flame burned his fingers . 
Even the bellboys on their bench were listening . 
The clerk 's eyes flickered . 
" Of course not " ! ! 
" Anybody with a contagious disease been in there " ? ? 
" No " ! ! 
The clerk was almost hysterical . 
" It 's just that -- well , 1105 is being redecorated " . 
" I do n't believe it " . 
Alec leaned on the desk , holding the clerk 's eyes with his . 
" Suppose you tell me the real reason " , he drawled . 
" There might be a story in it " . 
" St-story " ? ? 
" I 'm with the Syndicated Press , Feature Service . 
Either I get the story -- or I get the suite " . 
It was blackmail and the clerk knew it . 
" There is no story " , he piped tremulously . 
" Front ! ! 
Show this gentleman to 1105 " ! ! 
The stillness persisted as Alec followed a bellboy across the lobby to the elevator . 
He could feel eyes on his back . 
He wished it had not been necessary to announce the number of his suite quite so publicly . 
The corridor on the eleventh floor was dimly lighted by electric globes at intervals of thirty feet . 
A thick , crimson carpet muffled every footfall . 
At the end of the corridor Alec noticed a door marked : Fire Stairs . 
It was a neat setup for murder . 
The bellboy unlocked a white door numbered 1105 . 
The room was dark but a neon sign flashed and faded beyond the window . 
A few snowflakes sifted down through that theatrical red glow , languid as falling feathers . 
Hastily the boy switched on a ceiling light . 
The room looked normal and even commonplace . 
There was no hint of a violent struggle now . 
Deal furniture with a mahogany finish was neatly arranged as if it stood in the window of a department store . 
The blue rug was suspiciously bright and new . 
It had never been stained with blood . 
Table covers and towels were clean , ashtrays empty and supplied with fresh matches . 
The mirror over the bureau was a blank eye , round and innocent . 
Alec played the part of an innocent tourist . 
" Is there anything wrong with this room " ? ? 
" N-no " . 
The boy dropped his eyes . 
" Afraid you 'll lose your job if you do n't keep your mouth shut " ? ? 
The boy raised his eyes . 
" Listen , mister . 
If you want my advice , pack up and take the next train back to New York " . 
" Were you on duty here two weeks ago " ? ? 
The boy hesitated . 
Then , " I 'm not talking . 
But I would n't spend a night in here for a million bucks " ! ! 
He was in a hurry to get out of the room . 
Alec gave him a tip and let him go . 
Alone , Alec examined the doors . 
There were three -- one leading to a bathroom , one to the hall , and one to the room next door which was immovable -- locked or bolted on the other side . 
Alec locked the hall door and put the key with his watch on the bedside table . 
It was just quarter of nine . 
As he ranged his belongings on the bureau he noticed a film of white dust on the dark surface of the wood beyond the linen cover . 
Not gray like the dust that collects in an unused room , but white . 
Women did n't use white face powder nowadays , he recalled . 
They used pink , tan , or cream powder . 
Alec glanced into the bathroom . 
Blood in the bathtub where the murderer appears to have washed his hands . 
It seemed clean now , but Alec decided against a bath . 
He crawled into bed and switched off the light . 
In the darkness he could see the rosy reflection of the neon sign on the wall opposite the window . 
It winked as steadily as a metronome -- on , off -- on , off . 
In less than five minutes Alec was asleep . 
He never knew just what woke him . 
Yet suddenly he was wide-awake . 
There was no sound and apparently no movement in the room except the noiseless pulsation of the red light on the wall . 
He lay still , listening to the silence , watching the light . 
Somewhere in the city a big clock sounded twelve solemn notes -- midnight . 
According to the medical examiner she was shot between eleven p.m. and one a.m. . Alec heard a faint sound . 
His heart seemed to swell and knock against the wall of his chest . 
For the sound was inside the room . 
He let his eyelids droop and breathed heavily , feigning sleep . 
The sound was coming nearer . 
A monstrous shadow fell across the illuminated wall , distorted and indefinable . 
When the neon sign faded out , the shadow disappeared . 
When the neon sign flashed on , the shadow was still there . 
It stretched to an impossible height , climbing the wall to the ceiling . 
That meant that something between the light and its reflection on the wall was moving closer to the source of the light -- in this case , the window . 
Cautiously Alec tensed his muscles , ready to jump . 
The bedsprings betrayed him with a creak . 
The shadow vanished . 
Someone had moved beyond the range of the light from the window . 
Abandoning caution , Alec leaped out of bed and groped for the light switch . 
Before he could snap it on , a stinging blow caught him in the ribs . 
He lashed out blindly with his right . 
There was a thick , squashy crack of fist on flesh . 
Something hard grazed his knuckles . 
He put everything he had into the next and aimed down where the stomach ought to be . 
Rough cloth rasped his fist . 
There was a grunt , curiously inarticulate , like that of an animal in pain . 
Something heavy shook the floor as it dropped . 
Alec waited a moment , on guard . 
Nothing happened . 
Again he groped for the light switch . 
The blue rug had been rolled up and stacked in one corner of the room . 
On the bare floorboards a man lay face down . 
He had a short , heavy , powerful body . 
Alec turned him over and discovered a round , lumpy face with narrow , slanting eyes -- a primitive Tartar face from Russia or the Balkans . 
The man 's shoes were too pointed , his overcoat too broad at the shoulders and too narrow at the waist . 
There was a slight bulge under the left armpit -- a shoulder holster . 
Alec promptly removed the gun . 
He was familiar with this type . 
He had seen it in the lineup at Police Headquarters in New York , in Broadway night clubs and Seventh Avenue pool rooms , in the criminal courts . 
But he was surprised to meet it here . 
Diana Beauclerk had no connection with the underworld . 
A professional gunman would not have killed her with a weapon of such small caliber as a . 
Nor would he choose a respectable hotel as the scene for a killing when it would be so much safer to take his victim for a one-way ride on a lonely country road . 
The man 's eyelids fluttered . 
He opened his eyes . 
" What are you doing here " ? ? 
Demanded Alec . 
The man made no reply . 
His eyes were dazed . 
His lips were bruised and swollen where Alec had hit him . 
" Did you kill Diana Beauclerk " ? ? 
Alec expected an indignant denial , but there was no response at all . 
" Oh , come on , snap out of it ! ! 
Or I 'll turn you over to the police " ! ! 
The silence was getting on Alec 's nerves . 
The man opened his mouth , but no words came . 
Only that curious , animal grunting Alec had heard during their fight . 
" Do n't you speak English " ? ? 
The man opened his mouth wider . 
A forefinger pointed toward his gullet . 
Alec leaned forward to look . 
There were hideous scars inside the throat and the palate was mutilated . 
