Andy did not see the newspapers the next day . 
Someone on his staff -- he suspected it was Ed Thornburg -- intercepted them and for this Andy was grateful . 
He finally fell asleep around six in the morning with the aid of a sleeping capsule , a crutch he rarely used , and did n't awaken until early afternoon . 
Memory flooded him the instant he opened his eyes and the sick feeling knotted his stomach . 
Outside his window bloomed a beautiful summer day . 
Presumably the same sun was shining upon little Drew also , and those who had kidnapped him . 
But where ? ? 
It was still a very big world , despite all the modern cant to the contrary . 
Hub was sitting in a chair that blocked the hall door . 
He was dozing , perhaps the only sleep he 'd gotten . 
He snapped to alertness at Andy 's entrance . 
" Sorry , Mr. Paxton . 
Nothing new . 
Lot of people waiting to see you , though " . 
" Reporters " ? ? 
" Our own people . 
Questions about the show tonight " . 
Hub picked up the telephone . 
" Shall I let them know you 're awake " ? ? 
" I suppose . 
How 's Lissa , do you know " ? ? 
Hub considered . 
" Some better . 
She 's got plenty of guts , Mr. Paxton . 
You want me to call her " ? ? 
" She expecting me to " ? ? 
Hub shook his head so Andy told him not to bother . 
The only reason for contacting Lissa was to comfort or to be comforted . 
He could not manage the former or expect the latter ; ; they had nothing to give to each other . 
The omission might look peculiar to outsiders , but Andy could not bring himself to go through the motions simply for the sake of appearances . 
He had little time to himself , anyway . 
As the afternoon sped toward evening , the suite saw a steady procession of Paxton aides pass in and out , each with his own special problem . 
Thornburg arrived with the writers . 
They had spent the morning revising the act , eliminating all the gay songs , patter and dancing with a view of the best public relations . 
What remained lacked the original verve but it was at least dignified , as befitting the tragic circumstances . 
Raymond Fox reported that the orchestra had hastily rehearsed " Cradle Song " in case it was needed . 
Charlie Marble was back and forth on several occasions , first to confer with Andy on the advisability of cancelling the Las Vegas engagement -- they decided it was wise -- and later to announce that a prominent comedian , also an agency client , had agreed to fill the casino 's open date . 
And once Bake slipped in , pale and drawn , last night 's liquor still on his breath with some of today 's added to it . 
He asked if there was anything he could do . 
Andy invented a job to keep him busy , sending him ahead to El Dorado to supervise last minute arrangements . 
But from Rocco Vecchio , they heard nothing . 
At last it was time to depart . 
Hub , nosing about , spotted reporters in the lobby , so Andy was hustled away quietly through the hotel 's service entrance in a strange car which Hub had procured somewhere . 
They succeeded in eluding the curious at the hotel , but there was no chance of avoiding them at the nightclub . 
El Dorado was surrounded by a mob . 
They overflowed the parking lot , making progress by automobile difficult . 
Long before he reached the protection of the stage door , Andy was recognized . 
Word of his arrival spread through the crowd like a brushfire . 
They surged around him , fingers pointing , eyes prying . 
It was not a hostile gathering but Andy sensed the difference from last night 's hero-worshippers . 
They had come not to admire but to observe . 
" It 's worse inside " , Thornburg informed Andy . 
" Skolman 's jammed in every table he could find . 
Under the heading of it 's an ill wind , et cetera " . 
Backstage was tomblike by contrast . 
Andy 's co-workers kept their distance , awed by the tragedy . 
But in his dressing room was a large bouquet and a card that read , " We 're with you all the way " . 
It was signed by everyone in the troupe . 
Andy could n't help but be touched . 
He instructed Shirl Winter to compose a note of thanks to be posted on the call board . 
Bake was waiting to report that Lou DuVol had been sobered up to the point where he could function efficiently . 
Andy gathered that this had been no small accomplishment . 
Bake himself looked better ; ; any kind of job was better than brooding . 
Andy told him , " Bake , I wish you 'd talk to Skolman , see if some kind of p.a. system can be rigged up outside . 
It 's just barely possible with this crowd that the kidnapper was n't able to get a table . 
I would n't want him to miss the message " . 
" I 'll try . 
Skolman is n't going to like it much , though , giving away what he should be selling " . 
Skolman was n't the only one who did n't care for Andy 's scheme . 
A short time later , Lieutenant Bonner stomped into the dressing room . 
" I got a bone to pick with you , Mr. Paxton . 
It 's those damn loudspeakers " . 
Andy rolled up the revised script he had been studying . 
" What about them " ? ? 
" They 're going to louse me up good . 
My men have been here all afternoon , setting up for this thing " . 
Bonner explained that , with the nightclub 's cooperation , the police had occupied El Dorado like a battlefield . 
Motion picture cameras had been installed to film the audience , the reservation list was being checked out name by name , and a special detail was already at work in the parking lot scrutinizing automobiles for a possible lead . 
However , it was virtually impossible to screen the mob outside , even if Bonner had manpower available for the purpose . 
" I want you to have the speakers taken out " . 
Andy sighed . 
" Seems like we 're never going to see eye to eye , Lieutenant . 
Did n't they tell you what I wanted the p.a. system for " ? ? 
" Sure , I know . 
But it 's such a long shot " -- " No longer than yours . 
What do you expect to get tonight , anyway ? ? 
You think somebody is going to stand up in the audience and make guilty faces ? ? 
Or have a sign on his car that says , ' Here Comes the Paxton Kidnapper ' " ? ? 
Andy crumbled the script in his fist . 
" I ca n't stop you from doing what you think is right . 
But do n't try to stop me , either " . 
" Someday " , Bonner said , " you 're going to ask us for help . 
I can hardly wait " . 
" What you do n't understand is that I 'm asking for it now " . 
But Bonner departed , still full of ill will . 
He had gotten stuck with a job too big for his imagination ; ; he had to cling to routine , tested procedures . 
To act otherwise would be to admit his helplessness . 
But , admit or not , Bonner was helpless . 
The crime showed too much planning , the kidnappers appeared too proficient to be caught by a checklist . 
Andy 's performance was scheduled for eleven o'clock . 
He stalled for a half-hour longer , hoping to hear something from Vecchio about the ransom money . 
Bake and Shirl Winter , on separate telephones , could not reach him at any conceivable location in Los Angeles , nor could they secure any clear-cut information regarding his efforts . 
Bake cursed . 
" The sweaty bastard 's probably halfway to Peru with our money by now " . 
When no one smiled , he felt constrained to add , " Just kidding , natch " . 
Thornburg popped in to advise , " Andy , Skolman 's sending up smoke signals . 
You about ready " ? ? 
" What 's he complaining about " ? ? 
Bake asked . 
" They 're drinking , are n't they " ? ? 
" No . 
We got a bunch of sippers out there tonight . 
I guess nobody wants to pass out and miss anything " . 
Thornburg added in a lower voice but Andy overheard , " They act more like a jury than an audience " . 
Andy said , " Well , I guess we ca n't wait any longer . 
Hub , you stick by the stage door . 
If Rock shows up during the number -- or you hear anything -- give me the signal " . 
Shirl Winter said , " I 'll stay on the phone , Mr. Paxton . 
There 's a couple of call-backs I can work on " . 
" You 're a sweetheart -- but leave one line open . 
He may try to phone us " . 
Andy passed into the corridor , their " good lucks " ! ! 
Following him . 
It was what they said before every performance but tonight it sounded different , as if he really needed it . 
They were right . 
The act , cut to shreds and hastily patched together during the afternoon , had not been rehearsed sufficiently by anyone . 
The result had nothing of the polish , pace or cohesion of the previous night . 
Here 's where luck would normally step in . 
But this was no ordinary show and Andy knew it . 
Whether he sang well or badly had nothing to do with it . 
The audience had come not to be entertained but to judge . 
Twenty-four hours had changed him from a performer to a freak . 
Within this framework , what followed was strained , even macabre . 
Eliminating the patter and the upbeat numbers left little but blues and other songs of equal melancholy . 
The effect was as depressing as a gravestone , the applause irresolute and short-lived . 
Yet Andy plowed ahead , mouthing the inconsequential words as if they possessed real meaning , and gradually his listeners warmed to him . 
Their clapping grew more fervent ; ; the evening was still not beyond salvaging , not as a show but for him as a person . 
The worst was yet to come . 
As Andy reached the finale of his act , a subdued commotion backstage drew his attention to the wings . 
Rocco Vecchio -- a perspiring , haggard Vecchio -- was standing there , flanked by two men in the uniforms of armored transport guards . 
Vecchio was nodding and pointing at the large suitcase he held . 
Andy felt his heart thud heavily with relief . 
He waved at Fox to cut off the finale introduction . 
The music died away discordantly . 
He drew a deep breath . 
" Ladies and gentlemen , in place of my regular closing number tonight , I 'd like to sing something of a different nature for you . 
Ray , if you please -- the ' Cradle Song ' " . 
He sensed rather than heard the gasp that swept across the audience . 
Nor could he blame them . 
This particular song at this particular time could only be interpreted as the ultimate in bad taste , callous exploitation beyond the bounds of decency . 
Having no choice , he plunged into it , anyway , holding onto the microphone for support . 
" Lullaby and goodnight . 
" His voice shook . 
For the first time in his life he forgot the lyrics midway through and had to cover up by humming the rest . 
He wondered if the audience would let him finish . 
They did ; ; though contemptuous , they were still polite . 
But when he was finally through , their scorn was made apparent . 
Someone clapped tentatively then quickly stopped . 
Otherwise , the silence was complete . 
As the lights came up , Andy could see that a number of patrons were already on their way toward the exit . 
He stumbled off-stage . 
" My God " , he muttered . 
" My God " . 
Hub was there to support him . 
" It 's okay , Mr. Paxton . 
The money 's here , all of it " . 
At this moment , all he could think of was what he 'd been forced to undergo . 
" Did you hear them ? ? 
Do you know what they think of me " ? ? 
" Bunch of damn jerks " , Hub growled . 
" Who needs them " ? ? 
Thornburg patted his arm . 
" Sure , Andy , it 'll be all right . 
Nothing broken that ca n't be mended " . 
The words were hollow . 
Thornburg knew , better than any of them , that a public image was as fragile as Humpty Dumpty . 
All the king 's horses and all the king 's men Vecchio shouldered in . 
" I got it , Andy . 
God knows how , but I got it . 
You 'll never believe the places I 've been today . 
I practically had to sign your life away , you 'll probably fire me for some of the deals I had to go for , but " -- Andy nodded dully . 
" It does n't matter , Rock . 
We 've done our part " . 
He clutched that knowledge to him as he returned to his dressing room . 
The usual congratulatory crowd was conspicuously absent ; ; the place had the air of a morgue . 
Andy had no desire to linger himself but Hub reported that the mob outside was still large despite the efforts of the police to disperse them . 
