A man with a sketch pad in hand sat with a large pink woman in a small office at the end of a long , dim corridor and made pencil lines on paper and said , " Is this more like it , Mrs. MacReady ? ? 
Or are the eyebrows more like this " ? ? 
When he had finished with that , he would go to another part of the hotel and say much the same things to someone else , most probably a busboy . 
" Begin to look like him now , would you say ? ? 
Different about the mouth , huh ? ? 
More like this , maybe " ? ? 
Men blew dust on objects in a room on the seventeenth floor of the Hotel Dumont and blew it off again , and did the same in a tiny , almost airless room in a tenement in the West Forties . 
And men also used vacuum cleaners in both rooms , sucking dust up once more . 
Men from the Third Detective District , Eighteenth Precinct , had the longest , the most tedious , job . 
At the Hotel Dumont there had , at the time in issue , been twenty-three overnighters , counting couples as singular . 
These included , as one , Mr. and Mrs. Anthony Payne , who had checked in a little after noon the day before , and had not checked out together . 
But Gardner Willings was not included ; ; he had been at the Dumont for almost a week . 
There was , of course , no special reason to believe that the man or woman they sought had stayed only overnight at the hotel . 
The twenty-three ( or twenty-two with the Paynes themselves omitted ) provided merely a place to start , and their identification was the barest of starts . 
With names and addresses listed , verification came next . 
It would take time ; ; it would , almost inevitably , trouble some water . 
( " I certainly was not at the Dumont last night and my husband could n't have been . 
He 's in Boston . 
Of course he 's in " -- ) The Hotel King Arthur across the street provided almost twice as many problems . 
The King Arthur offered respectable and convenient lodgings to people from the suburbs who wanted to see a show and did n't want -- heaven knew did n't want ! ! 
-- to lunge anxiously through crowded streets to railroad stations and , at odd hours of night , drive from smaller stations to distant homes , probably through rain or , in November , something worse . 
The King Arthur was less expensive than the Dumont . 
The King Arthur had fifty-four overnighters , again counting rooms rather than people . 
Check the overnighters out . 
Failing to find what was wanted , as was most likely , check out other guests , with special -- but not exclusive -- attention to those with rooms on the street . 
( Anyone active enough can reach a roof , wherever his room may be . 
) And know , while all this went on , that there was no real reason to suppose that the murderer had been a guest in either hotel . 
It was not even certain the shot had been fired from either hotel . 
There were other roofs , less convenient but not impossible . 
It is dull business , detecting , and hard on feet . 
There was also the one salient question to ask , and ask widely : Did you notice anything out of the way ? ? 
Like , for example , a man carrying a twenty-two rifle , probably with a telescopic sight attached ? ? 
There was , of course , no hope it really would be that simple . 
The sniper , whether psychopathic marksman or murderer by intent , would hardly have walked to his vantage point with rifle over shoulder , whistling a marching tune . 
Anybody carrying anything that might hide a rifle ? ? 
Long thin suitcase ? ? 
Or long fat suitcase , for that matter ? ? 
Shrugs met that , from room clerks , from bellhops . 
Who measures ? ? 
But nothing , it appeared , long enough to attract attention . 
Cases , say , for musical instruments ? ? 
None noted at the Dumont . 
Several at the King Arthur . 
A combo was staying there . 
And had been for a week . 
Anything else ? ? 
Anything at all ? ? 
Shrugs met that . 
( Detective Pearson , Eighteenth Precinct , thought for a time he might be on to something . 
A refuse bin at the Dumont turned up a florist 's box -- a very long box for very long-stemmed flowers . 
Traces of oil on green tissue ? ? 
The lab to check . 
The lab : sorry . 
No oil . 
) Anything at all strange ? ? 
Well , a man had tried , at the King Arthur , to register with an ocelot . 
At the Dumont , a guest had come in a collapsible wheel chair . 
At the King Arthur one guest had had his head heavily bandaged , and another had a bandaged foot and had walked with crutches . 
There had also been a man who must have had St. Vitus or something , because he kept jerking his head . 
As reports dribbled in , William Weigand tossed them into the centrifuge which had become his head . 
Mullins came in . 
There was no sign of Mrs. Lauren Payne at her house on Nod Road , Ridgefield , Connecticut . 
The house was modern , large , on five acres . 
Must have cost plenty . 
The State cops would check from time to time ; ; pass word when there was word to pass . 
Weigand tossed this news into the centrifuge . 
Sort things out , damn it . 
Sort out the next move . 
Try to forget motive for the moment . 
Consider opportunity . 
Only those actually with Payne when he was shot , or who had left the party within not more than five minutes ( make five arbitrary ) positively had none . 
The Norths ; ; Hathaway , Jerry 's publicity director ; ; Livingston Birdwood , producer of Uprising . 
They had been with Payne when he was shot , could not therefore have shot him from above . 
Take Gardner Willings . 
He had left after the scuffle ; ; had been seen to leave . 
He would have had ample time to go into a blind somewhere and wait his prey . 
Consider him seriously , therefore ? ? 
Intangibles entered , then -- hunches which felt like facts . 
Willings would ambush , certainly ; ; Willings undoubtedly had . 
Willings was , presumably , a better than average shot . 
But -- hunch , now -- Willings would not ambush anything which went on two legs instead of four . 
Because , if for no other reason , Willings would never for a moment suppose he was not bigger , tougher , than anything else that went on two legs . 
Ambushes are laid by those who doubt themselves , as any man may against a tiger . 
Faith Constable had had to " go on " from the party and had , presumably , gone on . 
To be checked out further . 
Forget motive ? ? 
No , motive is a part of fact . 
Nobody in his right mind punishes a quarter-century-old dereliction . 
Grudges simply do not keep that well in a sane mind . 
Faith Constable had accomplished much in a quarter of a century . 
Jeopardize it now to correct so old a wrong ? ? 
Bill shook his head . 
Also , he thought , I doubt if she could hit the side of a barn with a shotgun . 
Lauren herself ? ? 
She had left the party early , pleading a headache . 
No lack of opportunity , presuming she had a gun . 
She might , conceivably , have brought one in in a large-enough suitcase . 
( Check on the Payne luggage . 
) She might now have taken it away again . 
Motive -- her husband wandering ? ? 
Bitter , unreasoning jealousy ? ? 
Heaven knew it happened and hell knew it too . 
But -- it happened , almost always , among the primitive and , usually , among the very young . 
( Call it mentally young ; ; call it retarded . 
) There was nothing to indicate that Lauren Payne was primitive . 
She did not move in primitive circles . 
She was young , but not that young . 
It occurred to Bill Weigand that he was , on a hunch basis , eliminating a good many . 
He reminded himself that all eliminations were tentative . 
He also reminded himself that he had an unusual number of possibilities . 
The Masons , mother or son , or mother and son ? ? 
Opportunity was obvious . 
Motive . 
Here , too , the cause to hate lay well back in the years . 
But bitterness had more cause to remain , even increasingly to corrode . 
With the boy , particularly . 
The boy had , apparently -- if Mrs. MacReady was right in what she had told Mullins -- only in recent months been forced to give up college , to work as a busboy . 
Seeing the man he blamed for this made much of -- youth and bitterness and -- Bill picked up the telephone ; ; got Mullins . 
" Send out a pickup on Mrs. Mason and the boy when you 've got enough to go on " , Bill said . 
" Right " ? ? 
Mullins would do . 
A man named Lars Simon , playwright-director , had expressed a wish that Anthony Payne drop dead . 
He would say , of course , that he had not really had any such wish ; ; that what he had said was no more than one of those things one does say , lightly , meaning nothing . 
Which probably would turn out to be true ; ; which he obviously had to be given the opportunity to say . 
A man named Blaine Smythe , with " y " and " e " but pronounced without them , had been fired at Payne 's insistence . 
He was also , if Pam North was right , a closer acquaintance of Lauren Payne 's than she , now , was inclined to admit . 
He might deny the latter ; ; would certainly deny any connection between the two things , or any connection of either with murder . 
He would have to be given the opportunity . 
Mullins ? ? 
It was evident that Mullins was the man to go . 
It was evident that a captain should remain at his desk , directing with a firm hand and keeping a firm seat . 
Bill Weigand was good and tired of the wall opposite , and the crack in the plaster . 
Let Mullins keep the firm seat ; ; let Stein . 
When Siamese cats are intertwined it is difficult to tell where one leaves off and another begins . 
Stilts and Shadow , on Pam 's bed , appeared to be one cat -- rather large , as Siamese cats go , and , to be sure , having two heads and two tails . 
On the other hand , they , or it , seemed to have no legs whatever . 
Pamela North said , " Hi " , to her cats , and added that proper cats met their humans at the door . 
Of four dark brown ears , one twitched slightly at this . 
" All right " , Pam said . 
" I know it is n't dinnertime " . 
But at this the one too-large cat suddenly became two cats , stretching . 
Shadow , the more talkative , began at once to talk , her voice piteous . 
Stilts , a more direct cat , leaped from the bed and trotted briskly toward the kitchen . 
Shadow looked surprised , wailed , and trotted after her . 
The hell it is n't dinnertime , two waving tails told Pam North . 
It was not , whatever tale was told by tails . 
Martha presumably would cope . 
She might be firm . 
It was most unlikely that she would be firm . 
They want to be fat cats , Pam thought , and lighted a cigarette and leaned back on a chaise and considered pulling her thoughts together . 
After a time , it occurred to her that her thoughts were not worth the trouble . 
A vague feeling that Anthony Payne had had it coming was hardly a thought and was , in any event , reprehensible . 
Had Faith Constable 's explanation of her confidence , so uninvited , been a little thin ? ? 
That was more like a thought , but not a great deal more . 
Had that tall dark boy , carrying trays too heavy for him , found what he might have considered adulation of a man he probably hated more than he could bear ? ? 
And possessed himself -- how ? ? 
-- of a rifle and killed ? ? 
Pam found she had no answers ; ; had only a hope . 
The poor kid -- the poor , frail kid . 
Some people have luck and some have no luck and that , whatever people who prefer order say , is the size of it . 
The poor , unlucky -- The telephone rang . 
Pam realized , to her surprise , that she had been almost dozing . 
At four o'clock in the afternoon . 
Two martinis for lunch -- that was the trouble . 
I ought to remember . 
Do n't pretend . 
You do remember . 
You just -- " Hello ? ? 
Yes , this is she ? ? 
What " ? ? 
The voice had music in it . 
Even with words coming too fast , they came on the music of the voice . 
" I said I would " , Pam said . 
" They wo n't talk about who gave the information . 
Not unless they have to . 
They do n't , Mrs. Constable . 
Not unless they have " -- She was interrupted . 
" Call this a cry for help " , Faith Constable said . 
