Eight , nine steps above him , Roberts had paused . 
Mickey paused with him , waiting , no longer impatient , trying now to think it out , do a little planning . 
He looked down over the banister at the hotel desk , with the telephone and pen set . 
If I could call in , they could check the story while we were on our way . 
I would n't have to tell them I had Roberts -- Then he heard it , like a muffled thud , felt a subtle change in air pressure . 
He glanced up in time to see Roberts hurtling down on him from above , literally flying through the air , his bloody face twisted . 
Mickey tried to flatten against the banister , gripped it with one hand , but Roberts ' full weight struck him at that moment in the groin . 
He gasped for air and the impact tore his hand from the rail . 
He tumbled with Roberts , helpless and in agony , over and over , down the steps . 
By a wrenching effort , he managed to hunch and draw in , to take the final fall on his back and shoulders rather than his head . 
He was fuzzy in his mind and , for a moment , helpless on the lobby floor , but he was conscious , and free of the weight of Roberts ' body . 
When his vision cleared he saw the taller one scrambling upward , reaching . 
Mickey was on his knees when Roberts turned on the stairs and the razor flashed in his hand . 
He felt his empty pocket and knew that Roberts had retrieved the only weapon at hand . 
Mickey 's eyes fixed on the other 's feet , which would first betray the moment and direction of an attack . 
He rose stiffly , forcing his knees to lock . 
The knifelike pain in his groin nearly brought him down again . 
He made himself back off slowly , his eyes wary on Roberts , who now had no more to lose than he . 
The pain dulled as he moved , and he steadied inside . 
After a moment he extended one hand , the fingers curled . 
" Come on " , he said . 
" You want to be that big a fool -- I was hoping for this " . 
Roberts brushed at his eyes with his free hand and started down the steps . 
He held the razor well out to one side . 
He was invulnerable to attack , but he could be handled , Mickey knew , if he could be brought to make the first move . 
They were eight feet apart when Roberts cleared the last step . 
Mickey waited with slack arms . 
" Any time , Roberts " , he said . 
" Or would it be easier if I put my hands in my pockets " ? ? 
The taunt was lost on Roberts . 
He advanced slowly , directly , giving no hint of a feint to either side . 
He was just short of arm 's reach when he stopped . 
Mickey backed off two steps , forcing him to come on again . 
There was a fixed grin on Roberts ' face , made hideous by the swollen nose and the smeared blood . 
Mickey backed off again and Roberts hesitated , then came along . 
They moved in a series of rhythmic fits and starts , a macabre dance -- two steps back , two steps forward , two steps back . 
Mickey felt his shoulders come up against the wall beside the heavy slab front door . 
This was going to be it now , any second , and what he had to remember was to keep his eye on the razor , no matter what , even if Roberts should feint with a kick to the groin , the deadly hand was his exclusive concern . 
The kick came , sudden and vicious but short . 
Mickey 's guts twisted with the effort , but he kept his eye on the weapon . 
It moved in a silver arc toward his throat , then veered downward . 
He hunched his left shoulder into it and slashed at Roberts ' forearm with his own , felt the blade slide off his sleeve . 
Before Roberts could move inside to cut upward toward his face , he slammed his right fist into Roberts ' belly . 
Roberts sagged and slashed at him wildly . 
Ducking , Mickey tripped and fell to one side , landing heavily on the wood floor . 
Then Roberts was on him , gasping for breath and for a couple of seconds Mickey lost sight of the blade . 
He felt it rip at the side of his jacket and a momentary sting under his left ribs . 
He got a knee up into Roberts ' belly , used both hands and heaved him clear , then scrambled to his feet . 
They were in the center of the lobby now . 
Still clutching the razor , Roberts came up into a crouch , shaking his head . 
When he charged Mickey was ready . 
He hit Roberts with his left fist in the ribs and the razor cut toward him feebly , then wobbled in mid-air . 
With his right fist , and nearly all his weight behind it , he smashed at the bloodstained face . 
Roberts careened backward , his back arched , fought for balance and , failing , stumbled against the newel post at the foot of the stairs . 
The sound of his head striking the solid wood was an ultimate , sudden-end sound . 
He fell on his side across the lowest step , rolled over once , then lay still . 
Mickey found himself leaning against the desk , with stiff hands , panting for breath . 
After a minute he went to Roberts , looked at one of his eyes and felt for a pulse . 
He could n't feel any . 
Roberts appeared to be dead ; ; if not yet , then soon , very soon . 
Suddenly it was cold in the lobby . 
12 It seemed to him that a long time had passed before he decided what to do . 
Actually it was no more than eight or ten minutes , and the sum of his reasoning came to this : There 's no way to take him in now and keep those other two -- Wister and the one who hired the two of them -- from finding out about Roberts and lamming out . 
The local law here would hold me till they check clear back home , and maybe more than that . 
They would have to . 
By then they could never catch up with the others . 
There 's no other way ; ; I 'll have to do it myself . 
He looked at where Roberts lay sprawled on the step . 
Mickey was sure now he was dead . 
One thing , he thought , nobody knows about it yet . 
Only me . 
He climbed the stairs , went into Roberts ' room , found a suitcase and packed as much into it as he could . 
He left a few things . 
It did n't have to be perfect . 
Roberts was a wastrel . 
Walking away on impulse , he might logically leave behind what it was inconvenient to carry . 
When he had closed the suitcase he found a rag and moved about the room , wiping carefully everything he might have touched . 
It took him nearly an hour . 
He went to the room he had rented and got into his overcoat . 
He left the rest of his things and returned to the lobby . 
He set Roberts ' suitcase near the front door , went outside and walked back to the garage . 
He was mildly surprised to find it was snowing . 
It snowed softly , silently , an undulating interruption of his vision against the night sky . 
He could feel it on his face and in his hair . 
He found the key to the Jeep , got it started and warmed it up for five minutes . 
Then he backed out and swung around to the front drive . 
He went into the hotel and searched till he found the razor . 
He put it in his own pocket for safekeeping . 
He took the suitcase out to the Jeep and put it in the front seat . 
Then he went back for Roberts . 
The body was heavier than he had anticipated . 
He got it onto his shoulder after some work and carried it outside and down to the Jeep . 
He dumped it into the back and made sure it would n't roll out , then returned to the porch and closed the front door , making sure it was unlocked . 
He drove carefully in the direction of the brief tour they had taken earlier . 
It snowed continuously , but quietly , evenly . 
When he reached the dip in the woods , he saw that already the earlier ruts were barely discernible . 
The Jeep fought its way through the low spot and got onto higher ground . 
He drove in low gear to the fork in the road and swung as close as possible to the entrance to the abandoned mine . 
He parked facing it and left the headlights on , but when he started into the tunnel with the suitcase , he found the illumination extended no farther than half a dozen feet into the passage . 
He went back and got the flashlight , returned to the tunnel and carried the suitcase to the edge of the pit he had found earlier . 
He tossed the bag into the pit and watched dry dust spray up around it . 
When the dust settled , he went back to the Jeep and carefully worked Roberts ' body onto his shoulder . 
It was n't like carrying the suitcase . 
The soft snow was deceitful underfoot . 
Twice he nearly fell . 
Inside the passage , he had to work his way over the fallen timber and nearly collapsed under his clumsy burden . 
By the time he reached the edge of the pit he was panting and his shoulder and back ached under the drag of the dead weight . 
He stood looking down for a few seconds , then backed up two or three paces from the edge . 
There was too much weight casually to toss it away . 
He could feel himself falling in with it and being unable to get out . 
It would be a bad place to die . 
It was a bad place for Roberts to wind up , but Roberts had asked for it . 
It was too late to worry about that . 
He knelt slowly and dumped the corpse onto the floor of the tunnel . 
It was a relief to get rid of the weight . 
He was shaking with tension and it took him a couple of minutes to get his breath and settle down . 
Then he got on his knees and rolled Roberts ' body toward the edge . 
It hung momentarily on the point of dropping off . 
He gave it a strong push , heard it slide , then tumble dryly into the hole . 
He got to his feet and threw the flashlight beam into the pit . 
The body lay in an awkward sprawl twelve or fifteen feet below the level of the tunnel floor . 
Deep enough , he decided . 
There was little chance anyone would enter this shaft during the winter . 
The external signs of his approach to it would be covered by the snow , probably by the next day . 
It was n't cold enough in the tunnel to preserve the body intact . 
By spring it would be a skeleton . 
He made his way back to the Jeep . 
He had started to back into the turn when he remembered the razor in his pocket . 
He climbed down , went back into the tunnel and tossed the razor into the pit . 
It landed on Roberts ' sprawled right thigh , poised precariously , then slid off to the ground . 
He went back once more to the Jeep and started the short drive to the hotel . 
In the garage he checked the Jeep for signs of the use he had made of it . 
There were stains here and there and he cleaned them off , using an oiled rag he found on a nail . 
He wiped the steering wheel and all the places he might have touched the Jeep . 
He replaced the flashlight where it had been stowed , got into his own car and backed it out of the garage . 
There were tire marks where it had been , but they were overlapped by others and on the dusty floor would not be noticeable except under close scrutiny . 
Liz Peabody , he thought , might spend some time grieving for her lost lover , but he doubted that she would launch an investigation . 
He judged her to be a woman of some pride , though not much sense . 
Still she would probably have sense enough not to call in the local sheriff to find her boy friend who , apparently , had run away . 
