Ryan hefted his bulk up and supported it on one elbow . 
He rubbed his eyes sleepily with one huge paw . 
" Ekstrohm , Nogol , you guys okay " ? ? 
" Nothing wrong with me that could n't be cured " , Nogol said . 
He did n't say what would cure him ; ; he had been explaining all during the trip what he needed to make him feel like himself . 
His small black eyes darted inside the olive oval of his face . 
" Ekstrohm " ? ? 
Ryan insisted . 
" Okay " . 
" Well , let 's take a ground-level look at the country around here " . 
The facsiport rolled open on the landscape . 
A range of bluffs hugged the horizon , the color of decaying moss . 
Above them , the sky was the black of space , or the almost equal black of the winter sky above Minneapolis , seen against neon-lit snow . 
That cold , empty sky was full of fire and light . 
It seemed almost a magnification of the Galaxy itself , of the Milky Way , blown up by some master photographer . 
This fiery swath was actually only a belt of minor planets , almost like the asteroid belt in the original Solar System . 
These planets were much bigger , nearly all capable of holding an atmosphere . 
But to the infuriation of scientists , for no known reason not all of them did . 
This would be the fifth mapping expedition to the planetoids of Yancy-6 in three generations . 
They lay months away from the nearest Earth star by jump drive , and no one knew what they were good for , although it was felt that they would probably be good for something if it could only be discovered -- much like the continent of Antarctica in ancient history . 
" How can a planet with so many neighbors be so lonely " ? ? 
Ryan asked . 
He was the captain , so he could ask questions like that . 
" Some can be lonely in a crowd " , Nogol said elaborately . 
" What will we need outside , Ryan " ? ? 
Ekstrohm asked . 
" No helmets " , the captain answered . 
" We can breathe out there , all right . 
It just wo n't be easy . 
This old world lost all of its helium and trace gases long ago . 
Nitrogen and oxygen are about it " . 
" Ryan , look over there " , Nogol said . 
" Animals . 
Ringing the ship . 
Think they 're intelligent , maybe hostile " ? ? 
" I think they 're dead " , Ekstrohm interjected quietly . 
" I get no readings from them at all . 
Sonic , electronic , galvanic -- all blank . 
According to these needles , they 're stone dead " . 
" Ekstrohm , you and I will have a look " , Ryan said . 
" You hold down the fort , Nogol . 
Take it easy " . 
" Easy " , Nogol confirmed . 
" I heard a story once about a rookie who got excited when the captain stepped outside and he could n't get an encephalographic reading on him . 
Me , I know the mind of an officer works in a strange and unfathomable manner " . 
" I 'm not worried about you mis-reading the dials , Nogol , just about a lug like you reading them at all . 
Remember , when the little hand is straight up that 's negative . 
Positive results start when it goes towards the hand you use to make your mark " . 
" But I 'm ambidextrous " . 
Ryan told him what he could do then . 
Ekstrohm smiled , and followed the captain through the airlock with only a glance at the lapel gauge on his coverall . 
The strong negative field his suit set up would help to repel bacteria and insects . 
Actually , the types of infection that could attack a warm-blooded mammal were not infinite , and over the course of the last few hundred years adequate defenses had been found for all basic categories . 
He was n't likely to come down with hot chills and puzzling striped fever . 
They ignored the ladder down to the planet surface and , with only a glance at the seismological gauge to judge surface resistance , dropped to the ground . 
It was day , but in the thin atmosphere contrasts were sharp between light and shadow . 
They walked from midnight to noon , noon to midnight , and came to the beast sprawled on its side . 
Ekstrohm nudged it with a boot . 
" Hey , this is pretty close to a wart-hog " . 
" Uh-huh " , Ryan admitted . 
" One of the best matches I 've ever found . 
Well , it has to happen . 
Statistical average and all . 
Still , it sometimes gives you a creepy feeling to find a rabbit or a snapping turtle on some strange world . 
It makes you wonder if this exploration business is n't all some big joke , and somebody has been everywhere before you even started " . 
The surveyor looked sidewise at the captain . 
The big man seldom gave out with such thoughts . 
Ekstrohm cleared his throat . 
" What shall we do with this one ? ? 
Dissect it " ? ? 
Ryan nudged it with his toe , following Ekstrohm 's example . 
" I do n't know , Stormy . 
It sure as hell does n't look like any dominant intelligent species to me . 
No hands , for one thing . 
Of course , that 's not definite proof " . 
" No , it is n't " , Ekstrohm said . 
" I think we 'd better let it lay until we get a clearer picture of the ecological setup around here . 
In the meantime , we might be thinking on the problem all these dead beasts represent . 
What killed them " ? ? 
" It looks like we did , when we made blastdown " . 
" But what about our landing was lethal to the creatures " ? ? 
" Radiation " ? ? 
Ekstrohm suggested . 
" The planet is very low in radiation from mineral deposits , and the atmosphere seems to shield out most of the solar output . 
Any little dose of radiation might knock off these critters " . 
" I do n't know about that . 
Maybe it would work the other way . 
Maybe because they have had virtually no radioactive exposure and do n't have any R 's stored up , they could take a lot without harm " . 
" Then maybe it was the shockwave we set up . 
Or maybe it 's sheer xenophobia . 
They curl up and die at the sight of something strange and alien -- like a spaceship " . 
" Maybe " , the captain admitted . 
" At this stage of the game anything could be possible . 
But there 's one possibility I particularly do n't like " . 
" And that is " ? ? 
" Suppose it was not us that killed these aliens . 
Suppose it is something right on the planet , native to it . 
I just hope it does n't work on Earthmen too . 
These critters went real sudden " . 
Ekstrohm lay in his bunk and thought , the camp is quiet . 
The Earthmen made camp outside the spaceship . 
There was no reason to leave the comfortable quarters inside the ship , except that , faced with a possibility of sleeping on solid ground , they simply had to get out . 
The camp was a cluster of aluminum bubbles , ringed with a spy web to alert the Earthmen to the approach of any being . 
Each man had a bubble to himself , privacy after the long period of enforced intimacy on board the ship . 
Ekstrohm lay in his bunk and listened to the sounds of the night on Yancey-6 138 . 
There was a keening of wind , and a cracking of the frozen ground . 
Insects there were on the world , but they were frozen solid during the night , only to revive and thaw in the morning sun . 
The bunk he lay on was much more uncomfortable than the acceleration couches on board . 
Yet he knew the others were sleeping more soundly , now that they had renewed their contact with the matter that had birthed them to send them riding high vacuum . 
Ekstrohm was not asleep . 
Now there could be an end to pretending . 
He threw off the light blanket and swung his feet off the bunk , to the floor . 
Ekstrohm stood up . 
There was no longer any need to hide . 
But what was there to do ? ? 
What had changed for him ? ? 
He no longer had to lie in his bunk all night , his eyes closed , pretending to sleep . 
In privacy he could walk around , leave the light on , read . 
It was small comfort for insomnia . 
Ekstrohm never slept . 
Some doctors had informed him he was mistaken about this . 
Actually , they said , he did sleep , but so shortly and fitfully that he forgot . 
Others admitted he was absolutely correct -- he never slept . 
His body processes only slowed down enough for him to dispell fatigue poisons . 
Occasionally he fell into a waking , gritty-eyed stupor ; ; but he never slept . 
Never at all . 
Naturally , he could n't let his shipmates know this . 
Insomnia would ground him from the Exploration Service , on physiological if not psychological grounds . 
He had to hide it . 
Over the years , he had had buddies in space in whom he thought he could confide . 
The buddies invariably took advantage of him . 
Since he could n't sleep anyway , he might as well stand their watches for them or write their reports . 
Where the hell did he get off threatening to report any laxness on their part to the captain ? ? 
A man with insomnia had better avoid bad dreams of that kind if he knew what was good for him . 
Ekstrohm had to hide his secret . 
In a camp , instead of shipboard , hiding the secret was easier . 
But the secret itself was just as hard . 
Ekstrohm picked up a lightweight no-back from the ship 's library , a book by Bloch , the famous twentieth century expert on sex . 
He scanned a few lines on the social repercussions of a celebrated nineteenth century sex murderer , but he could n't seem to concentrate on the weighty , pontifical , ponderous style . 
On impulse , he flipped up the heat control on his coverall and slid back the hatch of the bubble . 
Ekstrohm walked through the alien glass and looked up at the unfamiliar constellations , smelling the frozen sterility of the thin air . 
Behind him , his mates stirred without waking . 
Ekstrohm was startled in the morning by a banging on the hatch of his bubble . 
It took him a few seconds to put his thoughts in order , and then he got up from the bunk where he had been resting , sleeplessly . 
The angry burnt-red face of Ryan greeted him . 
" Okay , Stormy , this is n't the place for fun and games . 
What did you do with them " ? ? 
" Do with what " ? ? 
" The dead beasties . 
All the dead animals laying around the ship " . 
" What are you talking about , Ryan ? ? 
What do you think I did with them " ? ? 
" I do n't know . 
All I know is that they are gone " . 
" Gone " ? ? 
Ekstrohm shouldered his way outside and scanned the veldt . 
There was no ring of animal corpses . 
Nothing . 
Nothing but wispy grass whipping in the keen breeze . 
" I 'll be damned " , Ekstrohm said . 
" You are right now , buddy . 
ExPe does n't like anybody mucking up primary evidence " . 
" Where do you get off , Ryan " ? ? 
Ekstrohm demanded . 
" Why pick me for your patsy ? ? 
This has got to be some kind of local phenomenon . 
Why accuse a shipmate of being behind this " ? ? 
" Listen , Ekstrohm , I want to give you the benefit of every doubt . 
But you are n't exactly the model of a surveyor , you know . 
You 've been riding on a pink ticket for six years , you know that " . 
" No " , Ekstrohm said , " No , I did n't know that " . 
" You 've been hiding things from me and Nogol every jump we 've made with you . 
Now comes this ! ! 
It fits the pattern of secrecy and stealth you 've been involved in " . 
" What could I do with your lousy dead bodies ? ? 
What would I want with them " ? ? 
" All I know is that you were outside the bubbles last night , and you were the only sentient being who came in or out of our alarm web . 
The tapes show that . 
Now all the bodies are missing , like they got up and walked away " . 
It was not a new experience to Ekstrohm . 
No . 
Suspicion was n't new to him at all . 
" Ryan , there are other explanations for the disappearance of the bodies . 
Look for them , will you ? ? 
I give you my word I 'm not trying to pull some stupid kind of joke , or to deliberately foul up the expedition . 
Take my word , ca n't you " ? ? 
Ryan shook his head . 
" I do n't think I can . 
There 's still such a thing as mental illness . 
You may not be responsible " . 
Ekstrohm scowled . 
" Do n't try anything violent , Stormy . 
I outweigh you fifty pounds and I 'm fast for a big man " . 
" I was n't planning on jumping you . 
Why do you have to jump me the first time something goes wrong ? ? 
