The expense and time involved are astronomical . 
However , we sent a third vessel out , a much smaller and faster one than the first two . 
We have learned much about interstellar drives since a hundred years ago ; ; that is all I can tell you about them . 
" But the third ship came back several years ago and reported " " That it had found a planet on which human beings could live and which was already inhabited by sentient beings " ! ! 
Said Hal , forgetting in his enthusiasm that he had not been asked to speak . 
Macneff stopped pacing to stare at Hal with his pale blue eyes . 
" How did you know " ? ? 
He said sharply . 
" Forgive me , Sandalphon " , said Hal . 
" But it was inevitable ! ! 
Did not the Forerunner predict in his Time and the World Line that such a planet would be found ? ? 
I believe it was on page 573 " ! ! 
Macneff smiled and said , " I am glad that your scriptural lessons have left such an impression " . 
How could they not ? ? 
Thought Hal . 
Besides , they were not the only impressions . 
I still bear scars on my back where Pornsen , my gapt , whipped me because I had not learned my lessons well enough . 
He was a good impresser , that Pornsen . 
Was ? ? 
Is ! ! 
As I grew older and was promoted , so was he , always where I was . 
He was my gapt in the creche . 
He was the dormitory gapt when I went to college and thought I was getting away from him . 
He is now my block gapt . 
He is the one responsible for my getting such low M. R. 's . 
Swiftly , came the revulsion , the protest . 
No , not he , for I , and I alone , am responsible for whatever happens to me . 
If I get a low M.R. , I do so because I want it that way or my dark self does . 
If I die , I die because I willed it so . 
So , forgive me , Sigmen , for the contrary-to-reality thoughts ! ! 
" Please pardon me again , Sandalphon " , said Hal . 
" But did the expedition find any records of the Forerunner having been on this planet ? ? 
Perhaps , even , though this is too much to wish , find the Forerunner himself " ? ? 
" No " , said Macneff . 
" Though that does not mean that there may not be such records there . 
The expedition was under orders to make a swift survey of conditions and then to return to Earth . 
I can't tell you now the distance in lightyears or what star this was , though you can see it with the naked eye at night in this hemisphere . 
If you volunteer , you will be told where you 're going after the ship leaves . 
And it leaves very soon " . 
" You need a linguist " ? ? 
Said Hal . 
" The ship is huge " , said Macneff , " but the number of military men and specialists we are taking limits the linguists to one . 
We have considered several of your professionals because they were lamechians and above suspicion . 
Unfortunately " Hal waited : Macneff paced some more , frowning . 
Then , he said , " Unfortunately , only one lamechian linguist exists , and he is too old for this expedition . 
Therefore " " A thousand pardons " , said Hal . 
" But I have just thought of one thing . 
I am married " . 
" No problem at all " , said Macneff . 
" There will be no women aboard the Gabriel . 
And , if a man is married , he will automatically be given a divorce " . 
Hal gasped , and he said , " A divorce " ? ? 
Macneff raised his hands apologetically and said , " You are horrified , of course . 
But , from our reading of the Western Talmud , we Urielites believe that the Forerunner , knowing this situation would arise , made reference to and provision for divorce . 
It 's inevitable in this case , for the couple will be separated for , at the least , forty years . 
Naturally , he couched the provision in obscure language . 
In his great and glorious wisdom , he knew that our enemies the Israelites must not be able to read therein what we planned " . 
" I volunteer " , said Hal . 
" Tell me more , Sandalphon " . 
Six months later , Hal Yarrow stood in the observation dome of the Gabriel and watched the ball of Earth dwindle above him . 
It was night on this hemisphere , but the light blazed from the megalopolises of Australia , Japan , China , Southeast Asia , India , Siberia . 
Hal , the linguist , saw the glittering discs and necklaces in terms of the languages spoken therein . 
Australia , the Philippine Islands , Japan , and northern China were inhabited by those members of the Haijac Union that spoke American . 
Southern China , all of southeast Asia , southern India and Ceylon , these states of the Malay Federation spoke Bazaar . 
Siberia spoke Icelandic . 
His mind turned the globe swiftly for him , and he visualized Africa , which used Swahili south of the Sahara Sea . 
All around the Mediterranean Sea , Asia Minor , northern India , and Tibet , Hebrew was the native tongue . 
In southern Europe , between the Israeli Republics and the Icelandic-speaking peoples of northern Europe , was a thin but long stretch of territory called March . 
This was no man 's land , disputed by the Haijac Union and the Israeli Republic , a potential source of war for the last two hundred years . 
Neither nation would give up their claim on it , yet neither wished to make any move that might lead to a second Apocalyptic War . 
So , for all practical purposes , it was an independent nation and by now had its own organized government ( unrecognized outside its own borders ) . 
Its citizens spoke all of the world 's surviving tongues , plus a new one called Lingo , a pidgin whose vocabulary was derived from the other six and whose syntax was so simple it could be contained on half a sheet of paper . 
Hal saw in his mind the rest of Earth : Iceland , Greenland , the Caribbean Islands , and the eastern half of South America . 
Here the peoples spoke the tongue of Iceland because that island had gotten the jump on the Hawaiian-Americans who were busy resettling North America and the western half of South America after the Apocalyptic War . 
Then there was North America , where American was the native speech of all except the twenty descendants of French-Canadians living on the Hudson Bay Preserve . 
Hal knew that when that side of Earth rotated into the night zone , Sigmen City would blaze out into space . 
And , somewhere in that enormous light , was his apartment . 
But Mary would soon no longer be living there , for she would be notified in a few days that her husband had died in an accident while on a flight to Tahiti . 
She would weep in private , he was sure , for she loved him in her frigid way , though in public she would be dry-eyed . 
Her friends and professional associates would sympathize with her , not because she had lost a beloved husband , but because she had been married to a man who thought unrealistically . 
If Hal Yarrow had been killed in a crash , he must have wanted it that way . 
There was no such thing as an " accident " . 
Somehow , all the other passengers ( also supposed to have died in this web of elaborate frauds to cover up the disappearance of the personnel of the Gabriel ) had simultaneously " agreed " to die . 
And , therefore , being in disgrace , they would not be cremated and their ashes flung to the winds in public ceremony . 
No , the fish could eat their bodies for all the Sturch cared . 
Hal felt sorry for Mary ; ; he had a time keeping the tears from welling to his own eyes as he stood in the crowd in the observation dome . 
Yet , he told himself , this was the best way . 
He and Mary would no longer have to tear and rend at each other ; ; their mutual torture would be over . 
Mary was free to marry again , not knowing that the Sturch had secretly given her a divorce , thinking that death had dissolved her marriage . 
She would have a year in which to make up her mind , to choose a mate from a list selected by her gapt . 
Perhaps , the psychological barriers that had prevented her from conceiving Hal 's child would no longer be present . 
Perhaps . 
Hal doubted if this happy event would occur . 
Mary was as frozen below the navel as he . 
No matter who the candidate for marriage selected by the gapt The gapt . 
Pornsen . 
He would no longer have to see that fat face , hear that whining voice " Hal Yarrow " ! ! 
Said the whining voice . 
And , slowly , feeling himself icy yet burning , Hal turned . 
There was the squat loose-jowled man , smiling lopsidedly up at him . 
" My beloved ward , my perennial gadfly " , said the whining voice . 
" I had no idea that you , too , would be on this glorious voyage . 
But I might have known ! ! 
We seem to be bound by love ; ; Sigmen himself must have foreseen it . 
Love to you , my ward " . 
" Sigmen love you , too , my guardian " , said Hal , choking . 
" How wonderful to see your cherished self . 
I had thought we would never again speak to each other " . 
5 the Gabriel pointed towards her destination and , under one-gee acceleration , began to build up towards her ultimate velocity , 99.1 percent of the speed of light . 
Meanwhile , all the personnel except those few needed to carry out the performance of the ship , went into the suspensor . 
Here they would lie in suspended animation for many years . 
Some time later , after a check had been made of all automatic equipment , the crew would join the others . 
They would sleep while the Gabriel 's drive would increase the acceleration to a point which the unfrozen bodies of the personnel could not have endured . 
Upon reaching the desired speed , the automatic equipment would cut off the drive , and the silent but not empty vessel would hurl towards the star which was its journey 's end . 
Many years later , the photon-counting apparatus in the nose of the ship would determine that the star was close enough to actuate deceleration . 
Again , a force too strong for unfrozen bodies to endure would be applied . 
Then , after slowing the vessel considerably , the drive would adjust to a one-gee deceleration . 
And the crew would be automatically brought out of their suspended animation . 
These members would then unthaw the rest of the personnel . 
And , in the half-year left before reaching their destination , the men would carry out whatever preparations were needed . 
Hal Yarrow was among the last to go into the suspensor and among the first to come out . 
He had to study the recordings of the language of the chief nation of Ozagen , Siddo . 
And , from the first , he faced a difficult task . 
The expedition that had discovered Ozagen had succeeded in correlating two thousand Siddo words with an equal number of American words . 
The description of the Siddo syntax was very restricted . 
And , as Hal found out , obviously mistaken in many cases . 
This discovery caused Hal anxiety . 
His duty was to write a school text and to teach the entire personnel of the Gabriel how to speak Ozagen . 
Yet , if he used all of the little means at his disposal , he would be instructing his students wrongly . 
Moreover , even getting this across would be difficult . 
For one thing , the organs of speech of the Ozagen natives differed somewhat from Earthmen 's ; ; the sounds made by these organs were , therefore , dissimilar . 
It was true that they could be approximated , but would the Ozagenians understand these approximations ? ? 
Another obstacle was the grammatical construction of Siddo . 
Consider the tense system . 
Instead of inflecting a verb or using an unattached particle to indicate the past or future , Siddo used an entirely different word . 
Thus , the masculine animate infinitive dabhumaksanigalu'ahai , meaning to live , was , in the perfect tense , ksu'u'peli'afo , and , in the future , mai'teipa . 
The same use of an entirely different word applied for all the other tenses . 
Plus the fact that Siddo not only had the normal ( to Earthmen ) three genders of masculine , feminine , and neuter , but the two extra of inanimate and spiritual . 
Fortunately , gender was inflected , though the expression of it would be difficult for anybody not born in Siddo . 
The system of indicating gender varied according to tense . 
All the other parts of speech : nouns , pronouns , adjectives , adverbs , and conjunctions operated under the same system as the verbs . 
