Chairs scraped back and customers hastily vacated their tables as the tall young buffalo hunter pushed open the swing doors and walked towards the bar . 
Only Blue Throat and his gang stayed where they were . 
Blue Throat was slumped with his back against the bar , elbows supporting his massive frame . 
He leered at the stranger as the distance between them closed . 
" Since when did they allow beardless kids into the saloon bars of this town , boys " ? ? 
He asked . 
" Seems to me I do n't remember altering any law about that " . 
He straightened up , alert now as the buffalo hunter came closer . 
" Stay right here where you are , kid " , he called . 
" I do n't aim to have minors breathing down my neck when I 'm a-drinking " : The stranger ignored him . 
He did n't stop till he was within three feet of Blue Throat and by that time the gang leader 's right hand was on the butt of his revolver . 
" I 'm Billy Tilghman " , said the stranger , " and I 've come for Pat Conyers ' body " . 
" And what makes you think you 're going to get it , pretty boy " ? ? 
" Because I 'm asking . 
Most of the time I get what I ask for " . 
Blue Throat winked at his six cronies . 
" The kid has no manners , boys . 
Shall we teach him some " ? ? 
His gun was half drawn when he asked the question , but the weapon never left its holster . 
Tilghman 's clenched fist swept over in a terrific right cross and clipped the big gunfighter on the side of his chin . 
His head snapped round and he reeled back , crashing into the table where his buddies were sprawling . 
Tilghman leapt on to him , dragged him upright and hit him again , this time sending him careening against the bar . 
A bullet gouged into the bar top an inch from Tilghman 's stomach as Blue Throat 's henchmen started shooting . 
Tilghman flung himself aside , dropped on one knee and pulled his own gun . 
The Colt roared twice and two men dropped , writhing . 
A third shot doused the light . 
Somewhere at the far end of the room a voice yelled , " You all right , Billy " ? ? 
" Yes , George , but I ai n't got poor old Pat 's body yet . 
And I aim to have it " . 
He fired again , and somewhere in the gloom a man screamed . 
Another took off his gun belt and flung his weapons to the floor . 
" OK , Tilghman , I 'm quitting " . 
" And me " , said another Blue Throat henchman . 
Somebody brought a light . 
Tilghman and his partner , George Rust , herded the men into a corner . 
" And now " , said Tilghman with deadly calm , " I 'll repeat what I said . 
I 've come for Pat Conyers ' body " . 
In two minutes the body of Tilghman 's former comrade , who had been killed by Blue Throat in a gambling brawl the previous night , was carried into the town 's funeral parlor to be prepared for decent burial . 
Blue Throat , nursing an aching jaw and a collosal dose of wounded pride , rode out of town with the survivors of the fight . 
" That critter will be back tomorrow " , predicted George Rust , " and he 'll bring fifty of his kind back with him . 
Blue Throat wo n't stand for this . 
He 'll shoot up the town " . 
The prediction was correct . 
The Reverend James Doran had scarcely completed Pat Conyers ' last rites on Boot Hill in the township of Petrie , when shots were heard in the distance . 
" Amen " , said the Reverend Doran , grabbing his rifle propped up against a tombstone , " and now my brethren , it would seem that our presence is required elsewhere " . 
Billy Tilghman and his comrades rode off to the battle . 
Blue Throat , who had ruled the town with his six-shooter for the last six months , certainly had no intention of relinquishing his profitable dictatorship . 
It was essential that he should restore his formidable reputation as a rip-roaring , ruthless gun-slinger , and this was the time-honored Wild West method of doing it . 
He rode in at the head of sixty trigger-happy and liquor-crazed desperadoes and took over a livery barn at the entrance to Main Street . 
The entire length of the street could be raked with rifle fire from this barn . 
Any posse riding down the street to demand Blue Throat 's surrender would be wiped out with one deadly burst of fire . 
The law-abiding citizens of Petrie had gathered inside Kaster 's Store , halfway down the street . 
Several were firing into the barn when Billy Tilghman arrived . 
He sized up the situation and shook his head . 
" If Blue Throat has his way he 'll keep us all cooped up in here for days " , he said . 
" There 's only one thing to move him fast , and we have it right here in this very store " . 
He called the store owner and together they went into the stockroom . 
Billy returned with six sticks of dynamite . 
" I 'm gon na drop these into Blue Throat 's lap " , he announced , " and I 'd like every gun to be firing into that barn while I get near enough to toss 'em through the window " . 
He slipped outside , hugging the walls of buildings and dodging into doorways . 
Blue Throat 's men spotted him and a hail of bullets splintered the store fronts and board walk as he passed . 
Fifty yards away from the barn he dodged inside a barber 's shop and came out at the back . 
Here he could n't be seen by Blue Throat and his gang . 
All he had to do was light the fuses of the dynamite sticks , run to within ten yards of an open window in the barn and hurl the sticks through . 
Billy Tilghman did just that . 
Within seconds the big barn was blasted into smoking splinters , with every outlaw either dead or injured inside . 
It was the abrupt end of Blue Throat 's dictatorship in Petrie . 
Though only slightly injured himself the big hoodlum never returned to those parts . 
To Tilghman the incident was just one of a long list of hair-raising , smash-'em-down adventures on the side of the law which started in 1872 when he was only eighteen years old , and did not end till fifty years later when he was shot dead after warning a drunk to be quiet . 
Of all the rip-roaring two-fisted tough boys of the Old West , " Uncle Billy Tilghman " stands out head and shoulders . 
He was the lawman who survived more gunfights than any other famous gun-slinging character in the book . 
He saw the most action , beat up more badmen with his bare fists , broke up the most gangs and sent more murderers to the gallows than any other U.S. marshal who lived before or after him . 
For fifty years his guns and ham-like fists shot holes through and battered the daylights out of the enemies of law and order in the frontier towns of the West . 
The deeds of countless western bandits and outlaws have been glorified almost to the point of hero-worship , but because Billy Tilghman remained strictly on the side of the law throughout his action-packed career , his achievements and the appalling risks he took while taming the West have remained almost unsung . 
Citizens took the view that a lawman was expected to risk his life on the odd occasion anyway , but this fighting fury of a man risked it regularly over a period of half a century . 
He came within an ace of being riddled with bullets during his long fight with the Doolin gang which terrorized Oklahoma in the 1890 's . 
Led by Bill Doolin , these mobsters specialized in train robberies but as a sideline they looted stores and robbed banks , making liberal use of their guns . 
Bill Doolin 's ambition , it appeared , was to carve out his name with bullets alongside those of Jesse James and Billy the Kid , and Bill Tilghman had sworn he would stop him . 
Tilghman knew that some ranchers were hand-in-glove with the Doolin gang . 
They bought rustled cattle from the outlaw , kept him supplied with guns and ammunition , harbored his men in their houses . 
Billy decided to set an example by arresting one of the ranchers , named Ed Dunn , who lived at Rock Fort . 
On a bitterly cold day in January , 1895 , accompanied only by Neal Brown as his deputy , Tilghman left the township of Guthrie and headed for Rock Fort and Dunn 's ranch . 
It was snowing hard when they got there and they saw no horses outside . 
The only evidence of occupation came from the chimney , which was belching out thick smoke . 
The two lawmen halted their wagon about twenty yards from the door . 
" Wait here , Neal " , said Tilghman . 
" If I do n't come out within half an hour ride back to town and bring out a posse " . 
Leaving his rifle in the wagon , Tilghman walked up to the door and hammered on it . 
There was no reply so he shoved it open with his foot and stepped inside . 
Directly opposite the door was a roaring log fire , a welcome sight on that bitterly cold day . 
Seated near it with his back to the door was the rancher , Ed Dunn . 
" Hello , Ed " , said Tilghman . 
The rancher grunted an acknowledgement but did n't move . 
Tilghman closed the door behind him and walked towards the fire . 
Suddenly he saw something which made his big heart give a sickening lurch and caused the hairs to bristle on the back of his neck . 
Along each side of the room were six tiered bunks , each one screened off with a curtain . 
And projecting wickedly through these curtains were the gleaming muzzles of six rifles , all trained on Billy Tilghman . 
The fighting marshal had walked right into a trap and at any moment six slugs might slam into his hide . 
Thinking fast , Tilghman never hesitated for one instant . 
He walked right up to the fire as though blissfully unaware of the guns covering him . 
The men behind them were Bill Doolin and five of his gang -- every man a killer . 
" Cold day " , said Tilghman , placing his hands behind him and casually presenting his backside to the fire . 
" Just dropped in to ask where Jed Hawkins lives . 
Ca n't seem to locate landmarks in this snow " . 
The rancher was trembling . 
He would n't look Tilghman in the face . 
" Follow the river for five miles " , he said hoarsely . 
" Jed 's homestead is on the south bank " . 
Resisting the overwhelming temptation to flng himself out of that bristling death-trap , Tilghman deliberately engaged the nervous rancher in trivial conversation for a good ten minutes . 
All that time rifle barrels were pointing unwaveringly at his head and body . 
One false move on his part and he would be a dead man . 
" Well " , he announced , " Guess I 'll be going now , Ed , and thanks for the warmup " . 
He strolled back to the door , whistling softly , hands still clasped behind him . 
He left the house and almost certain death without even increasing his pace and wondered by what remarkable stroke of Providence he had been allowed to come out alive . 
But he knew well enough that those guns would still be trained on his back as he walked towards the wagon . 
If he showed signs of collecting his rifle and going back with his deputy to the ranch he would be shot down instantly . 
Leisurely he climbed on to the wagon next to Neal Brown . 
" Do n't say or do anything " , he said softly . 
" Just get out of here without it looking as though we 're in a hurry . 
That place is crawling with Bill Doolin and his gang " . 
Even as he spoke those words Billy Tilghman 's life hung on a thread . 
Back in the house a hoodlum named Red Buck , sore because Billy had been allowed to leave unscathed , jumped from a bunk and swore he was going after him to kill him right then . 
" You 'll stay right here " , commanded Bill Doolin , covering Red with his rifle . 
" Billy Tilghman is too good a man to shoot in the back . 
We 'll let him go " . 
But the fighting marshal 's fifty-year run of immunity from violent death came to a full and final stop one night in a street at Cromwell , Oklahoma , where he had been sent to clean up the gambling and vice rackets . 
Wiley Lynn , a self-styled prohibition officer , had hit town the previous day and had been drinking ever since . 
That night he reeled out of Ma Murphy 's dance hall and proceeded to disturb the peace by shooting off his revolver . 
