The sentry was not dead . 
He was , in fact , showing signs of reviving . 
He had been carrying an Enfield rifle and a holstered navy cap-and-ball pistol . 
A bayonet hung in a belt scabbard . 
He was partially uniformed in a cavalry tunic and hat . 
Mike stripped these from him and donned them . 
He and Dean tied and gagged the man , using his belt and shirt for the purpose . 
They dragged him inside the building . 
Fiske joined them , unsteady on his feet . 
Julia , seeing the bandage , rushed to him . 
" You are hurt " ! ! 
She breathed . 
" I never felt better in my life " , Fiske blustered . 
He turned to Susan and kissed her on the cheek . 
" Thank you , My dear " , he said . 
" You are very brave " . 
Mike silenced them . 
" We 'll talk later . 
First , we 've got to get out of here " . 
" We 'll grab horses " , Dean said . 
" The main bunch is outside , but there are some over there inside the wall " . 
Mike debated it , trying to decide whether Fiske was strong enough to ride . 
But it at least offered him a chance for living . 
He had none here . 
And , for the sake of Julia and Susan , it had to be tried . 
The guerrilla bivouac remained silent . 
Light showed in the orderly room across the parade ground . 
Someone evidently was on duty there . 
No doubt there would be men guarding the horses . 
About a dozen animals were held inside the stockade , as best Mike could make out in the moonlight . 
Evidently this was a precaution so that mounts would be available in an emergency . 
He handed the guard 's rifle to Fiske . 
" Dean and myself will try to cut out horses to ride " , he said . 
" We 'll stampede the rest . 
You stay with the ladies . 
All of you be ready to ride hell for leather " . 
He added , " If this does n't work out , the three of you barricade yourself in the house and talk terms with them " . 
He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol . 
Susan halted Dean and kissed him . 
She clung to him , talking to him , and dabbing at her eyes . 
Mike turned away . 
He was thinking that the way she had responded to his own kiss had n't meant what he had believed it had . 
He felt unutterably weary . 
Dean turned from Susan and took Julia Fortune in his arms . 
He kissed her also , and with deep tenderness . 
She too began to weep . 
He released her and joined Mike . 
" All right " , he said . 
Mike only said , " Later " . 
" Be careful , McLish " ! ! 
Susan said fiercely . 
" The way you were careful " ? ? 
He snorted . 
" Running around in the moonlight almost naked and slugging a man with a rock " ? ? 
He kept going . 
He wanted no more sentimental scenes with her . 
He might say or do something foolish . 
Something all of them would regret . 
He might tell her how sorry a spectacle she was making of herself , pretending to be blind to the way Julia Fortune had taken Dean 's affections from her . 
And using him , Mike McLish , as a sop to her pride . 
He handed the bayonet to Dean and kept the pistol . 
" Stay well back of me " , he said . 
" I 'm going to walk up to the horses , bold as brass , pretending I 'm one of the guerrillas . 
There 's bound to be someone on guard , but the hat might fool them long enough for me to get close " . 
Holding the pistol concealed , he walked to the rear wall of the stockade . 
It was pierced by a wagon gate built of two wings . 
One wing stood open . 
Mike passed through it and moved toward the dark mass of horses . 
They were tethered , army style , on stable lines . 
A voice spoke near-at-hand . 
" Who 's that " ? ? 
Just me " , Mike said . 
" Is that you , Bill " ? ? 
He located his man . 
The guard stood in the shadow of the stockade wall just out of reach of the moonlight . 
Mike kept walking and got within arm 's reach before the man became suspicious and straightened from his lax slouch . 
Mike struck with the muzzle of the pistol . 
But the luck that had been running their way left him . 
The guard instinctively parried the blow with his rifle . 
He tried to veer the rifle around to fire into Mike 's body . 
Mike , off balance , managed to bat the muzzle away a moment before it exploded . 
The bullet went wide . 
Mike swung the pistol in a savage backlash . 
This time it connected solidly on the man 's temple , felling him . 
The explosion of the rifle had crashed against the walls of the stockade and the deep echoes were still rolling in the hills . 
The startled horses began rearing on their tethers . 
Dean came rushing up . 
" Are you hit " ? ? 
He demanded . 
" No , but the fat 's in the fire " ! ! 
Mike said . 
" There 's no chance now of all of us getting away . 
You 'll have to try it alone " . 
The sentry 's saddled horse stood picketed nearby , having been kept handy in case of need . 
Mike took the bayonet from Dean 's hand and slashed the picket line . 
" Up you go " ! ! 
He said . 
" Ride " ! ! 
Dean resisted Mike 's attempt to push him toward the horse . 
" Why not you " ? ? 
He protested . 
" Dammit " ! ! 
Mike said frantically . 
" You 're lighter than me . 
It 's our only chance now . 
Try to find these Feds . 
The rest of us can fort up in the house and hang on until you get back . 
You 're the one that 's taking the big chance " . 
Dean still hesitated , but Mike lifted him almost bodily into the saddle and thrust the reins in his hand . 
" No telling how good this horse is " , Mike panted . 
" Favor him and save something in case you hit trouble . 
Watch out for Apaches when it comes daylight . 
Take the pistol . 
You might need it . 
We 'll still have the rifle , and I might be able to round up some more . 
I 'll stampede the rest of these horses so they ca n't chase you " . 
Dean leaned from the saddle and gave him a mighty whack on the back . 
" McLish " , he said as he kicked the horse into motion , " I 'd be a mighty sad man if we never met again " . 
Then he was on his way at a gallop . 
Mike ran down the line , slashing picket ropes with the bayonet . 
He lifted a screeching war whoop . 
That touched off a total stampede . 
He darted inside the stockade and freed the horses there . 
These poured through the gate and joined the flight . 
The animals thundered away into the moonlight , heading for the ridges . 
The guerrillas were swarming from their bivouac at the west end of the enclosure . 
" Apaches " ! ! 
Mike yelled . 
" They 're stealin ' the stock " ! ! 
He scuttled in shadow along the east wall of the stockade and then followed the south wall until he was at the rear of the two frame buildings . 
He crouched there . 
His shout had been taken up and repeated . 
The guerrillas were running across the parade ground and through the rear gate in the wake of the departing horses . 
All were carrying guns they had seized up , but they were half-clad or hardly clad at all . 
Durkin and Calhoun came running from the post . 
They had pistols in their hands . 
They bawled questions that were not answered in the uproar . 
They followed the others toward the east gate . 
Beyond the stockade rifles began to explode as some of the guerrillas fired at shadows that they imagined were Apaches . 
Mike made a dash to the rear of the frame buildings . 
He crawled beneath the two supply wagons which stood between the buildings and peered around a corner . 
The area was deserted . 
A man was standing in the open door of the lighted orderly room a few yards to Mike 's left , but he , too , suddenly made up his mind and went racing to join the confused activity at the east end of the stockade . 
Mike crawled to the door and peered in . 
The orderly room seemed to be deserted . 
A lantern hung from a peg , giving light . 
Ducking inside , he found that three rifles were stacked in a corner . 
A brace of pistols , holstered on belts , hung from a peg , along with ammunition pouches . 
An ammunition case stood open , containing canisters which contained powder cartridges . 
Mike seized a blanket from a pallet in a corner , spread it on the floor and used it to form a bag in which he placed his booty . 
Shouldering the load he peered from the door . 
His looting of the orderly room had taken only a minute or two and the vicinity was still clear of guerrillas . 
He looked at the looming hoods of the supply wagons , struck by a new inspiration . 
He set his bundle down . 
Snatching the lantern from its peg , he shattered its globe with a blow against a post . 
He picked up the powder canister and ran out . 
Bursting paper cartridges , he scattered powder beneath the nearest wagon and dumped the contents of the canister upon it . 
He shouldered the blanket again , backed off , and tossed the lantern with its open wick beneath the wagon . 
He turned and raced across the parade ground toward the rock house . 
Powder flame gushed beneath the wagon . 
The stockade was brilliantly lighted and the guerrillas sighted him . 
They realized the truth . 
Bullets began to snap past him . 
One struck the muzzle of one of the rifles that projected from the shoulder pack . 
Its force spun him around , but he recovered and got into stride again . 
A bullet tore the earth from beneath his foot when he was a stride or two from safety . 
Another struck him heavily in the thigh and he went down . 
Guerrillas were racing toward him . 
Susan and Julia came from the door and dragged him with them . 
The three of them floundered through the door into the interior and fell in a heap . 
Susan bounced to her feet and slammed the door . 
She crouched aside as bullets beat at the portal , chewing into the planks . 
Some tore entirely through the whipsawed post oak . 
The iron hinges held , but the planks were in danger of being torn from the crossbars . 
Mike rolled to Susan , grasped her around the knees , dragging her off her feet . 
He hovered over her to shield her , for spent bullets were thudding against the rear walls . 
He peered from a loophole . 
Guerrillas were only a dozen yards away , charging the house . 
Mike snatched a pistol from the heap of scattered booty and fired . 
He dropped a man with the first bullet . 
At the same moment Wheeler Fiske fired the rifle Mike had given him and another guerrilla was hit . 
That halted the rush . 
The guerrillas scattered for cover . 
The wagons were burning fiercely . 
The mudwagon had caught fire also . 
The blaze was spreading to the frame buildings . 
The guerrillas realized they faced a new problem . 
" Gawdamighty " ! ! 
One screeched . 
" There goes our grub an ' ammunition " ! ! 
" Get a bucket line going " ! ! 
Calhoun shouted . 
" Hurry ! ! 
Hurry " ! ! 
The guerrillas began a frantic search for pails in which to bring water from the spring . 
But what few containers they found were inadequate . 
Many of them , in increasing panic , came running with water in their hats in a ludicrous effort . 
Both buildings were in flames . 
The heat drove the guerrillas back . 
The roof of the command post began to buckle . 
" Drag the wagons to the spring " ! ! 
Lew Durkin yelled . 
" Run 'em right into the spring ! ! 
Hustle " ! ! 
One of the wagons erupted a massive pillar of flame . 
A sizable supply of powder had been touched off . 
The wagons and the coach were beyond saving and so were the buildings . 
The glow of the fire reached through the openings in the windows , giving light enough to examine Mike 's wound . 
The bullet had torn through the flesh just above the knee , inflicting an ugly gash that was forming a pool of blood on the floor . 
But it had missed the bone and had passed on through . 
Susan and Julia ripped strips from their clothing and bound the injury . 
Mike tested the leg and found that he was able to hobble around on it . 
