When several minutes had passed and Curt had n't emerged from the livery stable , Brenner reentered the hotel and faced Summers across the counter . 
" I have a little job for you , Charlie . 
I 'm sure you wo n't mind doing me a small favor " . 
Brenner 's voice was oily , but Summers was n't fooled . 
He moistened his lips uneasily . 
" What is it you want me to do , Mr. Brenner " ? ? 
Brenner shrugged carelessly . 
" It 's very simple . 
I just want you to take a message to Diane Molinari . 
Tell her to come here to the hotel " . 
Vastly relieved , Summers nodded and started toward the door . 
" One thing , Summers " , Brenner said . 
" You 're not to mention my name . 
Tell her Curt Adams wants to see her " . 
Summers pulled up short , and turned around . 
" I do n't know , Mr. Brenner " , he said haltingly , beginning to get an inkling of Brenner 's plans . 
" It does n't seem quite right , telling her a thing like that . 
Could n't I just " -- His voice trailed off into silence . 
Brenner continued to smile , but his eyes were cold . 
He turned and looked around at the lobby as though seeing things he had n't before noticed . 
" You know , Summers " , he said thoughtfully . 
" Eagle 's Nest ought to have a fire company . 
If someone were to drop a match in here , this place would go up like a haystack " . 
He started toward the stairway , then turned to add , " Tell her to come to Adams 's room , that Adams is in trouble . 
Tell her to hurry " . 
" Yes sir " . 
His face pale , Summers headed for the street . 
Curt 's visit to the livery stable had been merely a precaution in case anyone should be watching . 
He paused only long enough to ascertain that Jess 's buckskin was still missing and that his own gray was all right , then climbed through a back window and dropped to the ground outside . 
The fact that Jess 's horse had not been returned to its stall could indicate that Diane 's information had been wrong , but Curt did n't interpret it this way . 
A man like Jess would want to have a ready means of escape in case it was needed . 
Probably his horse would be close to where he was hiding . 
From the back of the barn it was a simple matter to reach Black 's house without using the street . 
Curt approached the place cautiously , and watched it several minutes from the protection of a grove of trees . 
There was a light in Black 's front room , but drawn curtains prevented any view of the interior . 
Curt circled the house and located a barn out back . 
He could hear horses moving around inside , and nothing else . 
There was no lock on the door , only an iron hook which he unfastened . 
He opened the door and went in , pulling it shut behind him . 
Again he stood in the darkness listening , but there was only the scrape of a shod hoof on a plank floor . 
He moved ahead carefully , his left hand in front of him , and came to a wooden partition . 
Horse smell was very strong , and he could hear the crunch of grain being ground between strong jaws . 
He found a match in his pocket and lit it . 
There were two horses in the barn , a sway-backed dun and Jess Crouch 's buckskin . 
Curt snuffed out the match . 
It was certain now that Jess was in the house , but also , presumably , was Stacey Black . 
Curt wanted to get Jess alone , without interference from anyone , even as spineless a person as the store owner . 
He studied the problem for a few seconds and thought of a means by which it might be solved . 
Reaching across the side of the stall , he slapped the buckskin on the rump . 
The startled animal let out a terrified squeal and thrashed around in the stall . 
As Curt had hoped , the house door banged open . 
He slapped the buckskin again and it kicked wildly , its hoofs rattling the side of the stall . 
Curt moved over beside the door and waited . 
Presently he heard footsteps crossing the yard , and Jess 's smothered curses . 
The door swung open , and Jess said sourly , " What the hell 's the matter with you ? ? 
" The horse continued to snort . 
Curt doubted that any animal belonging to Jess would find much reassurance in its owner 's voice . 
Jess cursed again , and entered the barn . 
A match flared , and he reached above his head to light a lantern which hung from a wire loop . 
As he crossed to the side of the stall , Curt drew his gun and clicked back the hammer . 
" Before you try anything " , he said . 
" Remember what happened to Gruller " . 
Jess caught his breath in surprise . 
He started to reach for his gun , but apparently thought better of it . 
" That 's the stuff " , Curt said . 
" Just hold it that way " . 
He reached out to pull the door shut and fasten it with a sliding bolt . 
" You and I have a little talking to do , Jess . 
You wo n't be needing this " . 
He moved up and lifted Jess 's pistol out of its holster . 
" Damn you , Adams " -- Jess was beginning to recover from his initial shock . 
" We ai n't got nothing to talk about . 
If I do n't come back in the house , Breed 's going to " -- " Your trigger-happy brother is n't in the house . 
About now he 's probably having supper . 
That long ride the four of you took must 've given him a good appetite . 
Now turn around so I can see your face " . 
Jess turned . 
There was raw fury in his eyes , and the veins of his neck were swollen . 
" You 're about as dumb as they come , Adams . 
I do n't know what you 're up to , but when Brenner " -- " You can forget about Brenner , too " , Curt said . 
" It 's Ben Arbuckle we 're going to talk about " . 
" Arbuckle " ? ? 
Jess stiffened . 
" I do n't know nothin ' about him " . 
" No ? ? 
I suppose you do n't know anything about a piece of two-by-four , either ; ; one with blood all over it , Arbuckle 's blood " . 
Curt 's fingers put a little more pressure on the trigger of his gun . 
" So help me , Crouch , I 'd like to kill you where you stand , but , before I do , I 'm going to hear you admit killing him . 
Now start talking . 
Who told you to do it ? ? 
Was it Dutch Brenner " ? ? 
Curt was holding Jess 's gun in his left hand . 
He drew back his arm to slash the gunbarrel across Jess 's face , but did n't finish the motion . 
Pistol-whipping an unarmed man might come easy to someone like Jess , but Curt could n't bring himself to do it . 
Apparently sensing this , and realizing that it gave him an advantage , Jess became bold . 
" Having all the guns makes you a big man , do n't it , Adams ? ? 
If we was both armed , you would n't talk so tough " . 
" No " ? ? 
Curt reached out and dropped Jess 's pistol back into the holster . 
He retreated a step and holstered his own . 
" All right , Crouch ; ; we 're on even terms . 
Now draw " ! ! 
Sweat bubbled out on Jess 's swarthy face . 
The fingers of his right hand twisted into a claw , but he did n't reach for the gun . 
Curt , angry enough to be a little reckless , raised his hands shoulder high . 
" Does this make it any easier , coward " ? ? 
" I ai n't drawin ' against you " , Jess said thickly . 
" I heard how you outdrew Chico . 
I ai n't a gunslinger " . 
" No . 
You 're the kind of bastard who sneaks up on a man from behind and hits him with a club . 
I just wanted to hear you say so " . 
Jess stared at him without answering and let his hands fall to his sides . 
He had found Curt 's weakness , or what to Jess was a weakness , and was smart enough to take advantage of it . 
Somewhere in the distance , a woman screamed . 
Curt was too involved in his own problems to pay much attention . 
He had to make Jess talk , and he had to do it before Stacey Black got curious and came to investigate . 
Once more he lifted Jess 's gun from its holster , only this time he tossed it into the stall with the frightened buckskin . 
He dropped his own beside it . 
" We 'll do it another way , then " , he said harshly . 
Jess 's coarse features twisted in a surprised grin which was smashed out of shape by Curt 's fist . 
With a roar of pain and fury Jess made his attack . 
Curt managed to duck beneath the man 's flailing fist , and drove home a solid left to Jess 's mid-section . 
It was like hitting a sack of salt . 
Pain shot up Curt 's arm clear to the shoulder , but Jess seemed hardly aware that he had been hit . 
He slammed into the wall , bounced back , and caught Curt with a roundhouse right which sent him spinning . 
An inch lower and it would have knocked him out . 
As it was , his vision blurred and for a moment he was unable to move . 
When his eyes began to focus , he saw Jess charging at him with a pitchfork . 
Curt twisted to one side , and the tines of the fork bit into the floor . 
Jess wasted a few seconds trying to yank them loose . 
It gave Curt time to stagger to his feet . 
The tines broke off under Jess 's twisting , and he swung the handle in an attempt to knock Curt 's brains out . 
His aim was hurried ; ; so the pitchfork whistled over Curt 's head . 
By now Curt was seeing clearly again . 
He stepped inside Jess 's guard and landed two blows to the big man 's belly , putting everything he had behind them . 
They made Jess double over . 
When his head came down , Curt grabbed him by the hair and catapulted him head first into the wall . 
The building shook , setting the lantern to swaying , and the buckskin to pitching again . 
Even Black 's old crowbait began to snort , and from the house Black yelled , " Jess ! ! 
What 's going on out there " ? ? 
Jess did n't seem too sure himself . 
He lurched drunkenly to his feet , lowered his head , and took one step away from the wall . 
Curt caught him flush on the nose with a blow which started at the floor . 
Jess had had enough . 
Blood gushed from his nose , and he backed off as rapidly as he could , stumbling over his own feet in his frantic haste to get away from Curt 's fists . 
Curt was in almost as bad shape , but he would n't quit . 
He backed Jess into a corner , grabbed a handful of the man 's shirtfront , and drew back his right fist . 
" Tell me about Arbuckle ! ! 
You killed him , did n't you " ? ? 
" It was Brenner 's idea " , Jess mumbled , dabbing at his nose . 
" He found out about you and Arbuckle talking . 
He wanted to show the town what happened to anyone who tried to start trouble " . 
" You mean anyone who stood up for his rights " , Curt said . 
He let go of the shirt , and Jess slumped to the floor . 
Turning his back , Curt crossed to the stall , reached over to untie the buckskin 's halter rope , and waved his hand in the animal 's face . 
The buckskin bolted out of the stall . 
Curt moved in and picked up his gun . 
He shook loose straw out of the action , and placed the gun in his holster . 
Leaving Jess 's where it lay , he left the stall . 
" Get up , Crouch . 
We 're going someplace " . 
Jess painfully got to his feet as someone rattled the door . 
" Who 's in there " ? ? 
Black called fearfully . 
Curt opened the door , grabbed Black by the shoulder , and pulled him into the barn . 
" You 're staying right here for a while . 
This dirty coward just admitted killing Arbuckle . 
I 'm going to let him tell it to somebody else " . 
He shoved Black toward the stall , and pointed his pistol at Jess . 
" Get out of here . 
You 're coming along peacefully , or I 'll put a bullet in your leg " . 
Jess stumbled through the door . 
Curt followed , reaching behind him to shut the door and hook it . 
Black would have little trouble getting out , but it might delay him a few minutes . 
" Where 're you takin ' me " ? ? 
Jess asked worriedly . 
" We 're going to Marshal Woods 's house . 
Maybe if the marshal hears this himself , it 'll make a difference . 
Somebody in this town must still have some backbone " . 
