" So it was n't the earthquake that made him return to his village " ! ! 
" No . 
Now dammit , I do n't want to go into any more explanations . 
Here comes Jason . 
Keep this to yourself " . 
Reverend Jason , looking worried , hurried toward us . 
" Anything wrong , cap'n ? ? 
The men seem to think so " . 
" Dirion found a large war party south of us . 
They 'll probably attack at dawn " , Montero said . 
He brushed past the clergyman and walked into the center of the camp . 
Using his hands as a trumpet he shouted , " Fort up ! ! 
Fort up ! ! 
There 's a large war party on their way " ! ! 
For a second , engages , cooks , voyageurs appeared struck dumb . 
Then Little Billy began shouting orders to round up the ponies and fill the water buckets and for the cooks to hurry up with the meal . 
They all flew into action . 
" That was a terrible thing to do " , I said to Oso . 
The Aricaras treated us like friends . 
And here all the time you knew the Sioux would be using our rifles on them ! ! 
God , what a world you people live in " . 
Oso gave me an unruffled look . 
" Old Knife 's got the largest war party ever seen on the river " , he said calmly . 
" What would you have done in Montero 's moccasins ? ? 
Let Old Knife come up and kill you and your people , or would you steer him on someone else " ? ? 
He shook his head . 
" Mr. Manuel did that in the war . 
That 's why the British never got the tribes to fight for the King . 
Mr. Manuel whispered in the ears of the Sioux that the Cheyennes were comin ' to raid 'em for their horses . 
Then he went on to the Cheyennes and told them that the Sioux was goin ' to move up . 
He did that with all the Nations . 
Hell , they were fightin ' each other so hard they had no time for anyone else . 
The War Department wrote Mr. Manuel a letter and said he was a hero . 
I saw that letter . 
He carried it in a little wallet made of fish skin " . 
" But that was war " , I said . 
" There 's no war on now " . 
" You 're wrong , Matt . 
In this country there 's a war on every time the grass turns green . 
First it was the Nations against themselves , then it was them against the whites . 
And it 's goin ' to go on like this year after year until the white people take over this land " . 
I remember being told it would happen so fast people would think it took place overnight . 
" That 's why this company 's important . 
Once we get over the mountains others will come along . 
That 's why the Trust do n't want us to make it . 
That bastard Chambers ! ! 
-- Old Knife 's not the only chief he 'll get to do his dirty work ! ! 
Before we get through he 'll have the Blackfeet hankerin ' for our hair and our goods . 
Well , talkin ' ai n't goin ' to help -- let 's fort up " ! ! 
As I dug in behind one of the bales we were using as protection , I grudgingly found myself agreeing with Oso 's logic , especially when I imagined what would have happened to Missy if Old Knife 's large party of screeching warriors had overrun our company . 
For , unlike the Sioux and the Crows , the Aricaras are not great horsemen , nor are they aggressive like the savage Blackfeet . 
More of an agricultural nation , they have relied on their warriors only for defense and for survival in the endless wars of the plains . 
Still , I was disgusted with myself for agreeing with Montero 's methods . 
Surprisingly , he had told the others what he had done . 
In the brief moment I had to talk to them before I took my post on the ring of defenses , I indicated I was sickened by the methods men employed to live and trade on the river . 
" I think Montero did right " , Amy said firmly . 
" Let the savages kill each other . 
What do we care " ? ? 
Reverend Jason was understandably bitter . 
" It was a terrible thing to do . 
Those little children . 
" But Oso replied calmly , " Trouble ai n't easy to dodge out in this country , rev'rend " . 
28 . 
Attack Gray Eyes attacked our camp just as the first pink threads stitched together the hills and the sky . 
Our camp was in the center of a wide valley . 
Montero had set up a strong position , using every bale and box we had in addition to barricades of logs and brush . 
He had ordered the ponies brought inside the fortified circle and had assigned Pierre and a band of picked engages the job of trying to keep them steady under fire . 
The pony herd was the one flaw in our defense ; ; the Rees undoubtedly would try to cut down as many of the animals as possible . 
Wildly bucking horses would make the position difficult to defend against charging warriors . 
The cooks had prepared one of the best meals we 'd had in a long time , and on Montero 's orders had baked enough bread to last the day . 
Buckets were filled , the herd fed and watered . 
The worst part had been the waiting ; ; although we did n't expect the attack before dawn , the long cloudy night , filled with the sounds of the industrious insects , seemed endless . 
Coyotes and hunting wolves sounded like signaling Indian scouts , the whinny of a restless pony made one 's skin crawl . 
Oso slept unconcernedly , his rifle cradled in his arms ; ; I did n't catch a wink . 
Every time I closed my eyes , I saw Gray Eyes rushing at me with a knife . 
It was a relief when they finally came . 
They poured through the opening in the valley , then spread out in a long line to come at us , brandishing their lances and filling the morning with their spine-chilling scalp cry . 
" Oso " , Montero called " I 'll get Gray Eyes " . 
" That 'll be a pleasure to see " , the big black murmured as he stared down the barrel of his rifle . 
" Hold your fire " , Montero was shouting . 
" Wait until my shot . 
I 'll shoot the first man who does n't " . 
I could see them in my sights . 
They were about a mile off ; ; under me the ground quivered slightly . 
At first they were only feathers and dark indistinguishable faces and bodies , hunched over their horses ' heads . 
Gradually they emerged as men . 
Gray Eyes was in the lead . 
His face was split by a vermilion streak , his eyes were pools of white ; ; jagged red and black medicine symbols covered his chest . 
He was naked except for a clout . 
Next to him was a young boy I was sure had sat near me at one of the trading sessions . 
His mouth was open , his neck corded with the strain of his screams . 
I found his chest in my sights . 
It had a red circle . 
The circle came nearer and nearer . 
My God , how long is he going to wait , I thought . 
Montero 's rifle cracked . 
At first I thought he had missed . 
Gray Eyes remained erect . 
The feathered lance was still above his head . 
As he started to slump over , another warrior swung him onto his horse . 
I squeezed the trigger . 
At the last second I dropped my sights from the bare chest and bright red circle to the chest of his pony . 
I saw the pony fall like a stone and the young warrior flew over its head , bouncing like a rubber ball . 
He started to run but Oso 's shot caught him on the wing . 
He jerked once in the grass and lay still . 
" If you 're goin ' to kill 'em -- ! ! 
Kill 'em " ! ! 
Oso growled . 
What else he said was lost in the rattle of gunfire on all sides . 
The Aricaras broke under the devastating fire , wheeled and retreated . 
" Lead up ! ! 
Lead up ! ! 
They 'll be back " ! ! 
Montero was shouting . 
Far up the valley I could see the Rees circling and reorganizing . 
Out in front of our walls the grass was covered with dead and dying men , war shields , lances , blankets and wounded and dead horses . 
The morning air was filled with the sweetish odor of new-spilled blood , the acrid stench of frightened horses , and the bitterness of burned powder . 
A horse screamed as it twisted from side to side in a frenzy . 
A rifle cracked ; ; the square head fell over . 
One of the warriors suddenly leaped to his feet and began running across the valley to the trees that lined the small creek . 
His legs pumped furiously , his long black hair streamed out behind him . 
There was a ragged volley . 
He was dead before he hit the ground . 
" For Christ 's sake , do n't waste your powder on one of 'em " ! ! 
Montero shouted furiously . 
" Wait for the charge ! ! 
The charge , I tell you " ! ! 
The sharp cries at the end of the valley were faint . 
They grew louder as the Indians charged again . 
I could see their faces glistening with sweat and bear grease , their mouths open , shouting their spine-chilling cries . 
" Gray Eyes is back , , Montero said . 
The war captain had been badly wounded and was fighting to hold his seat . 
I could see the blood running down his chest . 
He was riding between two warriors , who held him erect when he started to slump . 
I forgot to aim . 
In my sights I watched him looming bigger and bigger . 
Montero 's shot had caught him high in the chest ; ; there was no doubt he was dying . 
Again we waited for Montero . 
This time he delayed so long that some of the engages shouted frantically , but they held their fire . 
The horses were only several lengths away when he fired . 
The bullet flung Gray Eyes from his horse . 
Our rolling volley swept most of the other riders from their mounts . 
But a few reached our wall . 
I heard the whir of an ax and a Canadian 's face burst apart in a bloody spray . 
I saw Little Billy rise and fire almost point blank and an Indian 's face became shattered flesh and bone . 
A second leaped from his horse to the top of the bale , firing four arrows in such rapid succession it did n't seem possible they were in flight . 
Men screamed . 
Oso reached up , jerked the buck from the bale and snapped his neck . 
Other Indians were running at the ponies , shrilling and waving blankets . 
Reverend Jason got one , the Canadians the others . 
I saw the clergyman kneel for a moment by the twitching body of the man he had shot , then run back to his position . 
The ponies were almost uncontrollable . 
The pall of dust they raised made it difficult to see when the Aricaras charged again . 
This time more of them hurdled the barrier . 
A small Indian dived at Montero , who caught him with a swift upward stroke of his rifle butt . 
It sounded like a man kicking a melon . 
Above me a dark rider was whipping his pony with a quirt in an attempt to hurdle the bales . 
Although my shot killed his horse , he rolled off the bale on top of me . 
I could smell woodsmoke , grease , and oil . 
His eyes were dark , fluid , fearful , and he gave a sigh as my knife went in . 
Coming over the wall he had seemed like a hideous devil . 
Now under me I could see him for what he really was , a boy dressed up in streaks of paint . 
The Aricaras made one last desperate charge . 
It was pitiful to see the thin ranks of warriors , old and young , wheeling and twisting their ponies frantically from side to side only to be tumbled bleeding from their saddles by the relentless slam , slam of the cruelly efficient Hawkinses . 
Others , badly wounded , gripped hands in manes , knees in bellies , held on as long as possible and then , weak from ghastly wounds , slipped sideways , slowly , almost thoughtfully , to be broken under the slashing hoofs . 
Some gracefully soared from the backs of their wounded , screaming mounts to make one last defiant charge before the lead split their hearts or tore their guts . 
None of them reached our walls again . 
The few survivors grudgingly turned away . 
In the distance we could hear the drums and the wail of the death song . 
