I was slowly swimming down to the bottom of the sea . 
She made me welcome . 
Her dark cool caresses were sweeter than any woman 's ; ; the many little tricks she knew made her embrace the ultimate one -- the ever more fantastic pressures deeper in her body squeezed not me but the air I breathed into a nitrogen anesthetic . 
yielding-Mediterranian-woman - , she soothed me , and drew me deeper into her . 
I no longer knew how deep I was , somewhere under 230 feet , getting drunker , happier and more contented by the second . 
The reasons for this dive seemed foolish now . 
Only the dive itself had any meaning . 
The metal-tasting nitrogen made me wonder if I should remove the mouthpiece and suck in the sweet water . 
Perhaps if I took off the aqua-lung I could swim better , love my woman better . 
I chuckled aloud , and the mouthpiece fell out . 
While a hazy part of my mind concentrated on swimming down , a clear part sorted over recent events , among them my only positive act in a long time . 
It was when I packed up what duds I had and went to Paris . 
It was no vacation , just me getting out after a bellyfull . 
I knew it would n't be the same . 
Wild kicks never are , but I hoped to dig up a better frame of mind . 
Once before I had been to Paris , long before I married Valery . 
That first time was good and it stuck with me . 
I was twenty-one back then , in the army , and fog put our plane down at Orly instead of Rhine-Main . 
It was a Saturday evening in April with a mist-like rain , and I was a little high on the good taste of life . 
I had a pocketful of money , which was unusual when I was in the army , and the plane would be grounded all night . 
In less than an hour I had gotten a hotel , showered , shaved and was out on the Champs Elysees in a fresh uniform . 
I felt like a Hun in Rome . 
All the women were beautiful , and the men were equal to them ; ; everything was glamorous to my dazzled eyes . 
There were some sweet machines other than women : an old Bugatti , a lean Farina coachwork on an American chassis , a Swallow , a type A40-AjK Mercedes and lots more . 
There was the Arc de Triomphe and the Tour d'Eiffel -- I was no yokel , but I was young , and this was Paris ! ! 
I had champagne at Maxim 's , then went into a cafe called the Jour et Nuit to ask the way to Montmartre . 
I never got there . 
I met Claire , which was better . 
She was eating bread and cheese just as fast as she possibly could , and washing it down with red wine . 
I stared . 
I did n't know a human could feed so fast and still be beautiful . 
She was blonde , and young , and nice and round in a tight white dress . 
Maybe her ravenous eating was n't grotesque because she was so positive about it . 
When she had drained the last of the bottle and paid her bill , she came directly to my table and said : " Handsome soldier , I have assuaged one hunger with food . 
I feel another of terrible urgency . 
Is your evening free " ? ? 
" Madame " , I said with noblesse oblige because of the " handsome " -- " yeah " . 
And so off we went to her apartment . 
She was a nymphomaniac , of course , the poor girl . 
Toward the break of day I waxed philosophical , and drew analogies about her way of eating bread and cheese . 
Now it was nine years later , and it was n't spring but winter when I returned . 
I got there on a Saturday evening . 
I made the mistake of going to the Jour et Nuit . 
The place was busy but I did n't feel like a Hun . 
I sat waiting for Life to come along and sweep me up . 
I had part of a bottle of French beer called Panther Pils ( so help me ) , then switched to Tuborg . 
After a few hours , Life had n't showed , and I was crocked . 
I went to my hotel and slept . 
The next morning a little cognac made me feel better -- but what can you do in Paris on Sunday morning ? ? 
So I drank more cognac . 
All that day and Monday I drank just enough to orbit but not make deep space . 
I read the Tropic of Capricorn and the Tropic of Cancer . 
Elemental , but sex . 
That 's what was on my mind . 
I was turning over the idea of a good debauchery when I dozed off . 
I felt better Tuesday evening when I woke up . 
My head was clear , my thinking sober and I was reconciled to this Paris idea as a flop on top of all my others . 
A good binge has that kind of therapeutic value . 
Sometime earlier the weather had turned cold and it was snowing . 
I went out into it . 
I walked around breathing the cold wine of the air until I found a park , and I sat down on a snowy bench where the light was dim and came from the sky . 
There was dignity and beauty in the little white flakes falling through the blue night . 
I had on only a topcoat , but I was n't cold . 
I was just miserable . 
Pretty soon a woman came along carrying a folded umbrella as a walking stick . 
She saw me and sat down beside me , three feet away . 
Suddenly I understood why she had the umbrella . 
It gave her poise and posture . 
Without it she would have been drab and limp . 
It gave her propriety . 
It gave her the right to sit down beside me , back straight , one hand out on the handle . 
I could n't imagine her without it . 
I knew all about her . 
She was another human being and happened to be a hustler . 
I did n't much care if she were there or not . 
After a while she said with sort of an unuttered laugh , " You have snow in your hair and ears " . 
( I did n't have on a hat . 
) Hardly glancing at her , I smiled a bleak one which said , Thanks , baby , but I 'd rather be alone . 
She was silent for a while , then said , " Why are you so unhappy " ? ? 
" I 'm not unhappy " , I lied , staring at the snow . 
She was trying to make a hole in my armor , and I did n't want it . 
" Is it a woman " ? ? 
She asked gently . 
She must have seen the ring on my left hand . 
" Well -- women and unhappiness go together " , I observed profoundly , adding , " You can wager your derriere on that " . 
" Ah , Monsieur , it is not my business to wager it . 
" This took me so funny I had to look at her . 
I felt my frozen sad face crumble , and I grinned a silly one I could n't have helped . 
I even snorted a chuckle . 
She smiled at me , but it was an awfully sad smile . 
She was even more miserable than me . 
Her eyes were smiling , too , but so sadly , and there was tiredness and infinite wisdom in them . 
" Now is n't it better to smile " ? ? 
She asked . 
Because I liked this sad person so much , I said , " Will you have a drink with me " ? ? 
I could see the ancient cynicism reinforce itself in her eyes , and I wondered how many men she had picked up with this same gambit . 
Anyway , I pulled a bottle of Remy Martin out of my topcoat , drew the cork , and passed it to her . 
I could see she was shocked . 
" I 'm sorry I have n't got a glass " , I said . 
" Non , non " , she said , taking the bottle , " not for that be sorry " . 
She tilted up and drank , and then I drank . 
It 's really rotten to drink good cognac like that , but I had n't cared before . 
I was n't going to lug around a glass . 
There was n't much light in the blue dark , but I could see her well . 
No child , this tart , she must have been thirty-five or even forty . 
I could n't be sure . 
Somehow she was attractive . 
Not good looking , but self-confident and wise so that it made her attractive . 
I liked her , and all at once I was glad she was there . 
We finished the bottle -- I had n't had a lot out of it earlier -- not speaking much to each other , and we stayed sober . 
I suppose we were cold , but we did n't feel it . 
We seemed to be drowsing , sadly , soberly , in the cold , cold air while the snow fell . 
Then she said , " Allons " , and we got up and went to my hotel without another word . 
I sensed no stranger in her . 
We undressed and made love with the comfortable acceptance I had once known with Valery . 
I decided thirty-five was the best estimate of her age . 
She had a funny little scar on her stomach , on the left side . 
I think we were very tired , for we awoke at the same moment , deeply rested , surprised to see the late morning sun on the windows , which were wet where the rime had melted . 
I felt wonderful , the absolute opposite of last night 's melancholy . 
My head was clear . 
I was hungry as a wolf , and my body felt lean and vital . 
" Bon jour " , I said brightly , sitting up , which pulled the covers to her hips . 
She looked good , with her short tousled hair and no make-up . 
Maybe closer to thirty , I thought . 
" Bon jour " ! ! 
She exclaimed , smiling . 
" J'ai faim " ! ! 
" Yeah , but breakfast first " . 
With a laugh she beat me to the bathroom . 
I called downstairs for food and a toothbrush for her . 
She came out pink from a hot bath , and I gave her my robe . 
I had brushed my teeth , showered , shaved and dressed by the time a waiter wheeled in breakfast . 
" The toothbrush Monsieur " , he said , presenting it . 
I gave it to the woman . 
" What is this for " ? ? 
She asked innocently . 
" Why , to brush your teeth " . 
" But I already have ! ! 
I used yours " . 
" Oh " ? ? 
I said with round eyes . 
I wondered if I ought to go use the new one myself . 
But I smelled the coffee , and thinking , What the hell , live dangerously , I decided I would scald my worries away . 
The coffee was n't very hot though , made in a filter pot , but it was good . 
We sent the waiter away and ate a tremendous amount of cold ham , hot hard-boiled eggs and hot garlic bread . 
As we ate , we talked . 
Her name was Suzanne , and mine Stephen . 
We sat back comfortably on the bed with our last cups of coffee . 
" You are very tactful , do you know , Stephen " , she remarked . 
" Um " ? ? 
I grunted , sipping . 
" Yes , because you did n't run off to use that new toothbrush " . 
I raised my eyes to look at her in the mirror . 
" I did n't really use yours " , she went on . 
" I carry one in my purse . 
I know men never kiss les putains " . 
To my immense relief , she changed the subject in the next sentence : " Shall we go to the Louvre today " ? ? 
" All right " . 
I said with enthusiasm at the idea . 
" But not immediately " . 
I put aside my empty cup . 
She smiled all the way to her wise , sad eyes , and drained her own . 
We were not rushed . 
" What is this from " ? ? 
I asked , touching the scar on her stomach . 
It was like a long thin line drawn through a pink circle . 
" A bullet " , she answered . 
The cynicism was back in her eyes , a bitter wisdom , and I wondered if forty were not so far wrong after all . 
She understood sex anyway , and played at it well . 
We went to the Louvre for a few hours , then by Metro to a cabaret in Montmartre . 
It was a nice place , not filled with smoke . 
We had champagne and steamed mussels . 
The sommelier brought the wine first , a magnum instead of the bottle I had ordered . 
He must have thought I was a tourist . 
I fixed him with a steely eye and said , " What 's this for ? ? 
I did n't ask for a Jeroboam of champagne " . 
I thought that was pretty humorous , but I did n't laugh . 
