" Good old A-Z " , Cap said . 
" You know , I 've got one of your cars at home . 
As a prominent industrialist , you ought to be interested in his nibs ' support group . 
Is n't his racket down your alley " ? ? 
Once it was , William thought . 
But not any more . 
A rush of memory swept him back , and he forgot Cap . 
How did he start on such a ride to brief glory ? ? 
Simply enough , through the inadvertent agency of his brother-in-law . 
General Hershey 's draft and Doc Eddyman and Cap were responsible for his first eminence , but Fearless Freddy Bryan could take credit , if he cared to ( and he did ) , for the second time . 
Freddy needed a job , having been detached from a rather dangerous career in real estate and skyscraper financing by Gerry , and it was up to Arthur Willis to provide him with one . 
Mr. Willis bought Zenith Plastic Products , a skeleton corporation of sorts which had undergone many vicissitudes and whose principal assets were a couple of electronics plants on Long Island engaged in working out government contracts , and installed Freddy in an executive position . 
Shortly after , Freddy had his usual proliferation of bold ideas . 
Willis listened patiently , and once in a while William was exposed to them at a family gathering ; ; he generally heard Freddy 's suggestions without interest , being absorbed by his own prospering concerns . 
Probably Mr. Willis was influenced toward deeper involvement by familial loyalty and a concern for his grandchildren . 
Gerry began to aid Freddy with her father , prodded , no doubt , by Joan 's open contempt for Freddy and William 's irritating competency . 
Another factor must have been the eventual disposal of Willis ' fortune ; ; she unquestionably assumed that the more he was entwined with Freddy , the more likely he was to reward Freddy richly upon his death . 
Whatever the reasons , Willis and Bryan started expanding Zenith . 
They acquired another electronics factory , a specialized ceramics company , an organization that built -- very experimentally -- high-speed research calculators . 
Since they were hunting for national defense contracts , Adam Herberet , a man of surprising resources , entered the combination as a silent partner because of his political connections . 
Feeling his power , Freddy looked for additional worlds to conquer . 
Heavy industry , slanted toward inexhaustible government coffers , attracted him . 
The Allstates Auto Company , a medium-sized firm which manufactured four-wheel-drive vehicles and other off-road equipment , had recently constructed an over-large , modern plant in a burst of misguided optimism . 
Cursed with a shaky management and dissatisfied stockholders , it was ripe for amalgamation , and Freddy 's instinct was to keep growing by stock mergers and small expenditure of cash , and never mind inevitable consequences . 
With Herberet 's blessing , he was convinced that Allstates ' Wisconsin folly would be ideal for conversion to airplane sub-assembly , tanks , missiles or ordnance of some kind . 
At that point William came into the picture . 
Although not much desiring the account , he had been appointed advertising head of Zenith . 
Freed of routine by having his own firm and a complaisant partner , his work in New York had given him a broader overall knowledge of business administration and corporate structure ; ; and if he was n't entirely committed to what he did , he was at least fascinated by the chance of wider opportunities . 
Mr. Willis , eager to have him allied with the family , wanted advice beyond the confines of his field , and William set out on a serious study of the situation , including trips to Wisconsin and Washington . 
In the end , he said : " I 'm not enchanted by the proposition , sir . 
I know a guy named Jack Hamrick , a very bright young engineer who was with Chrysler , and I took him with me to Allstates . 
It 's his expert opinion that the plant is n't well suited to what you have in mind . 
The conversion will cost a fortune . 
Besides that , I 'm acquainted more or less with the defense hardware situation through my contacts in the Air Force . 
I think Adam Herberet is guilty of being too hopeful and better informed on defense financing than on the technical side . 
Missiles have thrown everything up for grabs , and nobody seems to be sure where we go from here . 
The future of manned aircraft is in doubt , which affects government procurement , and jet transports have revolutionized the airline trade -- one jet can take the place of three compound-engine planes . 
This means the aircraft companies are going to tear into the government market , looking for anything they can get and making the competition tough . 
Here are a few facts and figures I 've assembled . 
Ca n't you stay with what you have and wait till the dust settles " ? ? 
Willis glanced at the bound pages given him and shrugged . 
" Well " , he said , " there is Freddy , you know . 
And Gerry . 
Freddy is deeply committed to our plans already . 
He assures me he has people to handle the money raising , and Ham Richert , my lawyer , says the legal aspects of the wedding of Zenith and Allstates are no problem . 
I do n't like to exhibit the deadly dampening effect of an elderly man 's caution " . 
" Yes , I appreciate that . 
I wish you would n't tell Freddy I 'm lukewarm ; ; I 've caused him trouble before , and he 's beginning to resent me . 
If we do n't take care , the sisters will be entering the fray on opposite sides , brandishing their cudgels " . 
" Which is a frightful prospect , Bill " . 
Willis laughed . 
" One should n't mix commercial affairs with patriarchy , but in this case I have no choice . 
Let me think about it . 
I 'm most grateful to you , so grateful I wish you were my principal aide instead of Freddy " . 
Not to William 's surprise , Freddy , Adam and Hamilton Richert prevailed ; ; allied to them was Gerry , devoting much time to swaying her father , and Joan dismissed all thought of the project and William was unwilling to interfere further . 
Zenith absorbed Allstates , stock transfers were arranged , and Freddy became president of the hyphenated combination . 
Through Jack Hamrick , William fell into the world of automobile promotion and got several accounts for Shoals and Clay . 
He forgot about A-Z till , unhappily , he and Hamrick were proved correct . 
Freddy 's backing dropped away from him and Mr. Willis was forced to make up the deficit . 
Adam , beset by changing defense conditions and the open secret that he was part of the new corporation , could n't deliver from his end . 
The Wisconsin plant turned out to be a white elephant . 
Stock Willis held in abundance fell sharply in value . 
Confronted by a grim future , Freddy lost his nerve and plumped for a drastic liquidation . 
Once more Willis summoned William . 
" You were right " , he said -- " you and your engineer -- and I 'm in something of a bind . 
Freddy 's solution does n't appeal to me . 
In addition to other defects , I 'm a stubborn man and hate to admit to the common garden variety of bad judgment . 
Will you see if you can help me " ? ? 
William spent a long week end closeted with Hamrick . 
His recent experience in motor car advertising , a love for cars of themselves , the existence of A-Z 's useless Wisconsin set-up , exposure to exciting conceptions of Hamrick 's that nobody would buy , and the coincidental recent failure of a respected but out-dated small-car manufacturer called Ticonderoga Motors had given him an idea of such dimensions he was almost afraid to broach it . 
Initially , Hamrick 's reaction to A-Z going into the passenger car market was discouraging . 
He thought the financing , the advertising , the production of new models , the founding of a nationwide chain of dealerships was simply too difficult . 
Then he caught fire . 
If A-Z could buy Ticonderoga cheaply and use their presses and dies and other equipment , if William could hit precisely the right promotion note , if the money hurdle was not insurmountable . 
They took nearly a month to investigate , marshal statistics , and put their arguments down in black and white . 
Taking Hamrick with him , William went to Mr. Willis . 
He was surprised and dubious , but impressed by the engineer and the report . 
" Your alternative is breathtaking " , he said , " and , I 'm frank in saying , a bit mad . 
I wish I was younger and less timid . 
Well , I ca n't resolve this myself . 
I 'll have to call in the brain trust . 
Are you willing to run the gantlet ? ? 
I ca n't guarantee you a sympathetic audience " . 
" We 'll be in there swinging " , William said , " but in a way , sir , you 've got to decide it yourself . 
You have the controlling interest and the principal expenditure is yours -- and , besides , nobody else is going to have the courage . 
If they follow anyone , it 'll have to be you " . 
He paused . 
" I should explain : there 's more here for me than advocating my little dream , there 's you . 
You must n't take a fall , or publicly back away . 
I hate that . 
You 're -- you 're Arthur Willis . 
Forgive the hearts and flowers theme " . 
" I rather like the music " , Willis replied quietly . 
" Thank you " . 
At the meeting , attended by Freddy , Richert , Herberet and the A-Z executive staff , with Mr. Willis presiding , William and Hamrick did indeed run the gantlet . 
From shock and incredulity , most of the listeners went on to open resistance and animosity . 
" Oh , my God " , Ham Richert said , " a little child shall lead them . 
Move over , General Motors " . 
" It 's absurd , Bill " , Freddy said , from a pale face . 
" You 're leading Dad down the garden path " . 
" Your garden , God damn it " ! ! 
William said . 
" I do n't enjoy family quarrels " , Adam said . 
" Nor crazy relatives . 
We 're here to transact business . 
Ca n't we put an end to this , Arthur " ? ? 
" Hear me out , please " , William begged . 
" I 'm an advertising hustler , I admit , but I have to get hot once in a larger sphere . 
Sure , Ticonderoga went broke in the low-priced market bucking the Big Three . 
Their cars were n't small enough , they did n't have the power , they were old-fashioned . 
They tried to sell 'em on economy and simple merit . 
We 've arrived at an age for romance and snobbery . 
We 've all been rich and spoiled long enough to hate the machine age . 
Look what those little European jobs are doing . 
We 'll woo the consumer with a product , not bludgeon him with chromed excess length and weight . 
Let 's make it moonlight and the call of far places and a seduction , at reasonable rates . 
Ticonderoga folded a few minutes too soon , before the tide changed , still honest and stupid -- and the network of dealers the company had is around waiting to be signed up again -- waiting for us , ready-made . 
We 've got rid of the steam yachts and Georgian houses , and the bloated , too-expensive automobile is next . 
Why not come down smartly in the world , in a chic fashion , with an Allstates-Zenith " ? ? 
He swayed them somewhat , but the debate raged on . 
Financing emerged as the main obstacle . 
Mr. Willis made it evident that he had contributed his maximum . 
" Nobody will underwrite it , I 'm telling you " , Freddy said . 
" I know what I 'm talking about in that department " . 
" There 's plenty of risk money " , Ham Richert added , " but not for anything this risky " . 
" All right " , William said . 
" We 'll try to swing the deal on that basis . 
If we ca n't raise the capital , we 're through . 
Nothing has been lost . 
You 're up against it anyhow . 
Why wo n't you give me a chance " ? ? 
A silence fell . 
Heads instinctively turned in Willis ' direction . 
He smiled at William and slowly rubbed his hands together . 
" I feel I must answer the question " , he said , " since the onus later , if any , should fall on me -- I do n't relish recriminations spread broadcast outside my family . 
I 'm not giving you a chance , Bill , but availing myself of your generous offer of assistance . 
Good luck to you " . 
" All the in-laws have got to have their day " , Adam said , and glared at William and Freddy in turn . 
Sweat started out on William 's forehead , whether from relief or disquietude he could not tell . 
Across the table , Hamrick saluted him jubilantly with an encircled thumb and forefinger . 
Nobody else showed pleasure . 
Spike-haired , burly , red-faced , decked with horn-rimmed glasses and an Ivy League suit , Jack Hamrick awaited William at the officers ' club . 
" Hello , boss " , he said , and grinned . 
" I suppose I can never expect to call you ' General ' after that Washington episode " . 
" I 'm afraid not " . 
