" He must have forgiven me " , Henrietta murmured to the room . 
The absolution of Doaty 's last will and testament was proof enough of that ; ; Doaty would never have left her house to a godless woman . 
She found herself wishing an old wish , that she had told Doaty she was running away , that she had left something more behind her than the loving , sorry note and her best garnet pin . 
Perhaps Doaty had guessed already and kept her counsel . 
Henrietta thought , It 's extraordinary how much she always knew about both of us . 
There had been more to know about Hetty , inevitably , and most of it unfavorable . 
Adelia was the good one , or , if not always good , less frequently tempted . 
Their childhood would have been quite circumspect without Hetty 's flair for drama , especially through the long summers . 
In winter , in the city , there had been the Maneret School , which taught excellently with a kind of austere passion for knowledge ; ; there had been lessons in French from a small Polish nobleman with a really profound distaste for his pupils ; ; there had been the dancing class -- Miss Craddock , thin and tireless , with her supervising wand and her everlasting one-two-three , one-two-three . 
There had been supper parties and teas , fetes and little balls , Mama small and pretty and gay and Papa enormously jocular , enormously possessive , the sun around which the Blackwell planets revolved . 
Mama had died before the corruption of the family circle , the interruption of Charles . 
It was safe to assume that Papa , sighing heavily , had said many times to his remaining daughter , " Thank God your poor mother was spared this " , and indeed it might be true that it had been easier for Henrietta to leave , with her hand in Charles ' hand , just because her " poor mother " was gone already and would never know . 
Mama was vulnerable ; ; one had always felt the need to make a safe world around her . 
But I would have gone anyway , thought Henrietta . 
She had always been able to ignore the moral question because there had been no choice . 
Only at this moment -- perhaps because it was before dawn and she was lying in Doaty 's bed -- she found herself examining how others might regard her . 
Perhaps they would argue that morality consisted just of that ability to see a choice . 
She turned on her side , finding the idea oppressive . 
If Adelia had felt about someone as Henrietta felt about Charles , would she have run away with him ? ? 
Impossible to imagine Adelia feeling so about anyone . 
No temptation , no sin . 
No temptation , no virtue ? ? 
A curious thought to end a curious night . 
The birds were really awake now in a colloquy of music , and light was beginning to creep across the room , touching sill and door , table and chair and all of Doaty 's flowers in their artificial blossom and leaf . 
Before anything else , she would go to Doaty 's grave with flowers from Doaty 's forgotten garden . 
Everything must wait upon this mission , this sentimental duty of a pilgrim whose nature avoided graveyards . 
She closed her eyes , remembering the small French cemetery , enclosed by stone walls . 
It had always seemed to rain there , and even the grass was gray . 
After the sad impatient moment , waiting for comfort which could not come , she slipped out of bed and went to the open window . 
The garden below was lacy with dew and enchanting in its small wildness . 
Leaning out , she could see a tangle of rosebush and honeysuckle , one not quite come to bloom , one just beyond it . 
On a thrusting spray thick with thorns and dewdrops and swelling pink buds , like a summer Valentine , a bird balanced and sang , nondescriptly brown and alive with its own music , a little engine of song . 
It was so pretty and artless that she felt like a child again and would have enjoyed running out barefoot to play on the wet grass with all the growing things , but Doaty never permitted bare feet and she was decidedly not a child but une femme d'un certain age . 
Feeling suddenly neat and subdued , she dressed quite soberly and went downstairs . 
Rosa , unbelievably , was not yet up and about , reassurance that Rosa was human . 
Feeling protective toward this sleeping being , Henrietta found a yesterday bun and milk in a white jug , a breakfast which was somewhat the equivalent of going barefoot . 
Outside , the garden , the tame wilderness , yielded a patchwork bouquet of daisies , sweet william , scented stock and lady 's bedstraw , which she tied with long grasses and took back to show Rosa , who was now stirring about the kitchen and haranguing Folly . 
The poodle came gleefully to Henrietta and begged for the flowers , supplicating the air with prayerful forepaws . 
Henrietta held her bouquet out of reach and said it was for Doaty . 
" Rummaging in the dew " , said Rosa coldly . 
" Go change your shoes before you turn around " . 
She sounded so exactly like Doaty that Henrietta obeyed her under the clear impression that she could either comply or stay home . 
Folly danced , eager for whatever lay beyond the door . 
To a Blackwell , there was only one church . 
The cemetery slumbered just behind it , and the way lay through the village and close to the sea . 
For the first time in thirty years , Henrietta walked down the narrow street with its shuttered shops just stirring and its inhabitants eying her with the frankest curiosity . 
She smiled and bowed , recalling the princess-in-a-carriage feeling she had enjoyed when she was a child . 
Now , some of the acknowledgments were cautious , but all were interested . 
An old man , sitting against the wall of a cottage and waiting for the sun to find him , gave her a more than reflective look as she passed , the sap still plainly rising in his branches . 
On an impulse , she turned back and said good morning . 
He cupped his ear and shook his head at her repetition , announcing in a nettled way that he had heard her the first time . 
He then offered his own estimate of the weather , which was unenthusiastic . 
" Summer 's been slow to come " , he said . 
" It 's my dryin ' out time " . 
He scowled at her flowers . 
" I 'm taking them to the cemetery " , said Henrietta , out of a vague feeling of hospitality . 
" They 'll be takin ' me next " , he said pleasantly , " but not so soon 's they plan . 
See half of 'em in their graves before I choose my own coffin . 
It 's dryin ' myself out that does it " . 
He regarded her with rising hope . 
" You 'd like to hear how I go about it " . 
" It 's nice of you " , Henrietta said doubtfully . 
" Y 're welcome " . 
He straightened himself , soldierly against the wall , and pulled his sprawled feet together so they stood side by side in their old boots . 
His stick ceased to be a thing to rest his chin on and became a pointer for emphasizing the finer aspects of his text . 
" Every month , f'r three days " , he said happily , " I take no water into my system , no water whatsoever . 
It rests the tissues " . 
Henrietta murmured that she could quite see how it would , and he nodded approval of her womanly good sense . 
" Rests the tissues " , he said , " and pacifies the system . 
My dad did it , and he lived to a great age " . 
He looked up at her sharply . 
" Do n't remember , do you " ? ? 
She did suddenly , through the link of memory with his father , old Titus , who must have been in his nineties when Henrietta ran away . 
Next to the Blackwells , Titus had owned the island most , and she and Adelia had often stood in front of him , silenced by his terrible years -- a scanty man with a thin beard and very deep-set blue eyes like a mariner , more aged than possible . 
He had never spoken once to the awed sisters , but his son had been friendly , a big fellow of fifty or more , a fishing-boat captain and powerful like the sea . 
It must be that son who sat before her now , shriveled to half his size and half his senses . 
She said gently , " Of course I remember you " . 
" Not so well 's I remember you " , he said . 
" Y 're the young Blackwell woman . 
Ran away on a black night with a lawful wedded man . 
I know all about you " . 
" You do seem to " , said Henrietta , impressed . 
" Ca n't blame a man for leavin ' his wife " , he said quite cheerfully . 
" Left mine many a time , only she never knew it . 
Man in a boat , there 's a lot of places he can put in at and a lot of reasons he can be away for a bit . 
Any harm in that " ? ? 
" Probably " , said Henrietta dryly . 
He gave a short hard laugh and looked at her knowingly . 
" You 'd be the one to say " , he observed , and she found herself liking his approval none too well , but she could not defend herself and say that her actions were " different " , since all actions had their own laws . 
Only , this old man 's connivance was even less to her taste than Selma Cotter 's open censure . 
Well , she had not come back to Great Island to be understood , praised or condemned . 
She had come to make her peace with the past , and of that past this ancient of the earth was only a kind of shadow . 
She started to move away , just as a woman came out of the cottage , a big-boned , drab-haired figure with a clean apron tied over her limp print dress . 
She smiled vaguely at Henrietta and spoke to the old man . 
" You 've not had your breakfast yet , gran'dad " . 
" Y'r dam ' porridge is no breakfast " , he said . 
" Milk and sops " ! ! 
He beat the air with his stick , and it fell from his claws and clattered on the stones . 
" He 's lowly today " , his grand-daughter said wearily , and bent to pick it up . 
" He 's got this idea about drying out " " It ai n't an idea " ! ! 
" If it ai n't an idea " , she said , " how comes it you can drink beer but not water " ? ? 
He looked piously to heaven and said , " Beer do n't affect the tissues none " , and the ingenious hypocrisy of this defense pleased Henrietta so that she forgave him his stint of malevolence . 
His grand-daughter sighed . 
" Come on , do . 
The children are eating , and Miss Blackwell 's on her way somewheres " . 
" To the graveyard . 
Who ai n't " ? ? 
" Not me . 
I 've got a day 's work to do . 
-- You 'll be visiting Miss Doaty , Ma'am " ? ? 
Henrietta nodded . 
How much they knew about her ! ! 
The woman ( she must have been a tiny baby when Hetty and Delia had stood arm in arm , watching great age grow small ) answered the nod with her own . 
" God rest her soul , she was a sweet one . 
Come on now " . 
She put a strong hand under the old man 's arm and lifted him up , patiently , with the gentle cruelty and necessary tyranny that the young show toward the very old . 
He mumbled at her but let himself be led off inside the house , shuffling mightily to make it clear how weak and aged he was and how he was buffeted about by those who still had their wicked strength . 
There was a gabble of voices from indoors , young hungry sounds like cats after fish , and a burst of swearing from the old man . 
Henrietta looked down at her bouquet , still lively with its color and scent , and set her feet on their journey 's way again , leaving the village street and crossing the first field , Folly dancing ahead of her . 
At the edge of the field , the wild rolling land took over , dotted with fat round bushes like sheep . 
They were covered with tiny white blossoms , their scant roots clawing at the stony ground , and wild birds darted in and about and through them so they were nearly alive with the rustle and cry . 
The air was full of sounds too but placid ones , a terrestrial humming as much out of the earth as out of the blue sky . 
She felt mindless , walking , and almost easy until the church spire told her she was near the cemetery , and she caught herself wondering what she would say to Doaty . 
Both church and graveyard were smaller than she remembered them ( how many things had lessened while she was gone away ) but the headstones had grown so thick in thirty years that to find one named " Dorothy Tredding " seemed suddenly impossible . 
She sat down on the nearest , fallen with age and gray with sea-damp , her fingers tracing the indecipherable carved letters padded with green moss . 
The day 's sun was gathering its strength in gold , and she wished she had brought her parasol , if only to shade Doaty 's flowers . 
A small , rock-carved angel watched her from a nearby tomb , the only angel in the cemetery . 
She remembered , suddenly , a night of savage moonlight and scudding clouds when she and Adelia , having dared each other , had stolen out of their great safe house and come here , hand in hand , hoping and fearing ghosts . 
