Among us , we three handled quite a few small commissions , from spot drawings for advertising agencies uptown to magazine work and quick lettering jobs . 
Each of us had his own specialty besides . 
George did wonderful complicated pen-and-ink drawings like something out of a medieval miniature : hundreds of delicate details crammed into an eight-by-ten sheet and looking as if they had been done under a jeweler 's glass . 
He also drew precise crisp spots , which he sold to various literary and artistic journals , The New Yorker , for instance , or Esquire . 
I did book jackets and covers for paperback reprints : naked girls huddling in corners of dingy furnished rooms while at the doorway , daring the cops to take him , is the guy in shirt sleeves clutching a revolver . 
The book could be The Brothers Karamazov , but it would still have the same jacket illustration . 
I remember once I did a jacket for Magpie Press ; ; the book was a fine historical novel about Edward 3 , , and I did a week of research to get the details just right : the fifteenth-century armor , furnishings , clothes . 
I even ferreted out the materials from which shields were made -- linden wood covered with leather -- so I 'd get the light reflections accurate . 
McKenzie , the art editor , took one look at my finished sketch and said , " Nothing doing , Rufus . 
In the first place , it 's static ; ; in the second place , it does n't look authentic ; ; and in the third place , it would cost a fortune to reproduce in the first place -- you 've got six colors there including gold " . 
I said , " Mr. McKenzie , it is as authentic as careful research can make it " . 
He said , " That may be , but it is n't authentic the way readers think . 
They know from their researches into television and the movies that knights in the middle ages had beautiful flowing haircuts like Little Lord Fauntleroy , and only the villains had beards . 
And girls could n't have dressed like that -- it is n't transparent enough " . 
In the end , I did the same old picture , the naked girl and the guy in the doorway , only I put a Lord Byron shirt on the guy , gave him a sword instead of a pistol , and painted in furniture from the stills of a costume movie . 
McKenzie was as happy as a clam . 
" That 's authenticity " , he said . 
As for Donald , he actually sold paintings . 
We all painted in our spare time , and we had all started as easel painters with scholarships , but he was the only one of us who made any regular money at it . 
Not much ; ; he sold perhaps three or four a year , and usually all to Joyce Monmouth or her friends . 
He had style , a real inner vision of his very own . 
It was strange stuff -- it reminded me of the pictures of a child , but a child who has never played with other kids and has lived all its life with adults . 
There was the freshness of color , the freedom of perception , the lack of self-consciousness , but with a twist that made the forms leap from the page and smack you in the eye . 
We used to kid him by saying he only painted that way because he was so nearsighted . 
It may have been true for all I know , because his glasses were like the bottoms of milk bottles , but it did n't prevent the paintings from being exciting . 
He also had , at times , an uncanny absent-minded air like a sleepwalker ; ; he would look right through you while you were talking to him , and if you said , " For Christ 's sake , Donald , you 've got Prussian blue all over your shirt " , he would smile , and nod , and an hour later the paint would be all over his pants as well . 
Mrs. Monmouth thought of him as her discovery , and she paid two to three hundred dollars for a painting . 
It was all gravy , and Donald did n't need much to live on ; ; none of us did . 
We shared the expenses of the studio , and we all lived within walking distance of it , in cheap lodgings of one kind or another . 
Attending the life class was my idea -- or rather , Askington 's idea , but I was ripe for it , and the other two would n't have gone if I had n't talked them into it . 
I wanted to paint again . 
I had n't done a serious picture in almost a year . 
It was n't just the pressure of work , although that was the excuse I often used , even to myself . 
It was the kind of work I was doing , the quality of the ambition it awoke in me , that kept me from painting . 
I kept saying , " If I could just build up a reputation for myself , make some real money , get to be well known as an illustrator -- like Peter Askington , for instance -- then I could take some time off and paint " . 
Askington was a kind of goal I set myself ; ; I had admired him long before I talked to him . 
It looked to me as though he had everything an artist could want , joy in his work , standing in the profession , a large and steady income . 
The night we first met , at one of Mrs. Monmouth 's giant parties , he was wearing a brown cashmere jacket with silver buttons and a soft pink Viyella shirt ; ; instead of a necktie he wore a leather bolo drawn through a golden ring in which was set a lump of pale pure jade . 
This set his tone : richness of texture and color , and another kind of richness as well , for his clothing and decorations would have paid the Brush-off 's rent for a year . 
He was fifteen years older than I -- forty-four -- but full of spring and sparkle . 
He did n't look like what I thought of as an old man , and his lively and erudite speech made him seem even younger . 
He was one of the most prominent magazine illustrators in America ; ; you saw one of his paintings on the cover of one or another of the slick national magazines every month . 
Life had included him in its " Modern American Artists " series and had photographed him at his studio in the East Sixties ; ; the corner of it you could see in the photograph looked as though it ought to have Velasquez in it painting the royalty of Spain . 
I had a long talk with him . 
We went into Mrs. Monmouth 's library , which had low bookshelves all along the walls , and above them a Modigliani portrait , a Jackson Pollock twelve feet long , and a gorgeous Miro with a yellow background , that looked like an inscription from a Martian tomb . 
The fireplace had tiles made for Mrs. Monmouth by Picasso himself . 
Like certain expensive restaurants , just sitting there gave you the illusion of being wealthy yourself . 
In the course of our talk , Askington mentioned that he spent part of each week studying . 
" By yourself " ? ? 
I asked . 
" No , I take classes with different people " , he said . 
" I do n't think I 've reached the point , yet , where I can say I know everything I ought to know about the craft . 
Besides , it 's important to the way a painter thinks that he should move in a certain atmosphere , an atmosphere in which he may absorb the ideas of other masters , as Durer went to Italy to meet Bellini and Mantegna " . 
He made a circle with his thumb and fingers . 
" Painting is n't this big , you know . 
It does n't embrace only the artist , alone before his easel . 
It is as large as all of art , interdependent , varied , multitudinous " . 
He threw his arms wide , his face shining . 
" The artist is like a fragment of a mosaic -- no , he is more than that , a virtuoso performer in some vast philharmonic . 
One of these days , I 'm going to organize a gigantic exhibition that will span everything that 's being painted these days , from extreme abstract expressionism to extreme photorealism , and then you 'll be able to see at a glance how much artists have in common with each other . 
The eye is all , inward or outward . 
Ah , what a title for the exhibition : The Eye is All " ! ! 
" What do you study " ? ? 
I asked . 
I was fascinated ; ; just listening to him made me feel intelligent . 
" I 'm studying anatomy with Burns " , he replied . 
" Maybe you know him . 
He teaches at the Manhattan School of Art " . 
I nodded . 
I had studied with Burns ten years before , during the scholarship year the Manhattan gave me , along with the five-hundred-dollar prize for my paintings of bums on Hudson Street . 
Burns and I had not loved each other . 
" I 'm also studying enameling with Hajime Iijima " , he went on , " and twice a week I go to a life class taught by Pendleton " . 
" Osric Pendleton " ? ? 
I said . 
" My God , is he still alive ? ? 
He must be a million years old . 
I went to a retrospective of his work when I was eighteen , and I thought he was a contemporary of Cezanne 's " . 
" Not quite " . 
Askington laughed . 
" He 's about sixty , now . 
Still painting , still a kind of modern impressionist , beautiful canvases of mountains and farms . 
He even makes the city look like one of Thoreau 's hangouts . 
I 've always admired him , and when I heard he was taking a few pupils , I went to him and joined his class " . 
" Yes , it sounds great " , I said , " but suppose you do n't think of yourself as an impressionist painter " ? ? 
" You 're missing the point " , he said . 
" He has the magical eye . 
And he is a great man . 
Contact with him is stimulating . 
And that 's the trouble with so many artists today . 
They lack stimulation . 
They sit alone in their rooms and try to paint , and only succeed in isolating themselves still farther from life . 
That 's one of the reasons art is becoming a useless occupation . 
In the Middle Ages , in the Renaissance , right up to the early nineteenth century , the painter was a giant in the world . 
He was an artisan , a man who studied his trade and developed his craftsmanship the way a goldsmith or a wood carver did . 
He filled a real need , showing society what it looked like , turning it inside out , portraying its wars and its leaders , its ugliness and its beauties , reflecting its profound religious impulses . 
He was a propagandist -- they were n't afraid of the word , then -- satirist , nature lover , philosopher , scientist , what you will , a member of every party and of no party . 
But look at us today ! ! 
We hold safe little jobs illustrating tooth-paste ads or the salacious incidents in trivial novels , and most of our easel painting is nothing but picking the fluff out of the navel so it can be contemplated in greater purity . 
A bunch of amateur dervishes ! ! 
What we need is to get back to the group , to learning and apprenticeship , to the cafe and the school " . 
He could certainly talk . 
The upshot of the evening was that I got the address of Pendleton 's studio -- or rather , of the studio in which he gave his classes , for he did n't work there himself -- and joined the life class , which met every Tuesday and Thursday from ten to twelve in the morning . 
It was an awkward hour , but I did n't have to punch any time clock , and it only meant that sometimes I had to stay a couple of hours later at the drawing board to finish up a job . 
After a short time , both George and Donald joined the class with me so they would n't feel lonely , and we used to hang a sign on the door of the Brush-off reading out to work . 
It was mostly for the benefit of the mailman , because hardly anybody else ever visited us . 
In a way , Askington was right . 
" Stimulating " was the word for it . 
I do n't know that it was always as rewarding as I had expected it to be . 
Partly , it was because Pendleton himself was n't what I anticipated . 
I had come prepared to worship at the feet of this classic , and he turned out to be a rather bitter old man who smelled of dead cigars . 
No , that is n't quite fair . 
Actually , there was a lot of force in him , which is why I kept on in that class instead of quitting after a week . 
