I do n't really believe in intuition . 
But I swear to you from the moment I opened my eyes , I knew it was going to be a bad day . 
Part of it was the weather , so foggy it would take me twice as long to get to the hospital . 
Part of it was being so tired -- I 'd not only had my usual full day yesterday , but a dinner meeting as well , that kept me up late . 
But the rest of it , the main part , was n't based on logic at all . 
It was just going to be one of those days . 
For the thousandth time , I wished I 'd chosen some nice , nine-to-five , five-days-a-week profession . 
And for the thousandth time , I answered myself . 
I had n't chosen medicine -- it had chosen me . 
Actually , I should n't complain , I told myself in the shaving mirror . 
I had a lot to be thankful for . 
A profession that brought me as good an income as mine was n't to be sneezed at . 
Maybe I did n't see as much of Gladdy as I 'd like , but how much worse it would have been if I 'd had to board her out somewhere after Alice went -- send my daughter to an orphanage or a boarding-home . 
At least , we were together and we had Mrs. Hodges , bless her , to look after us -- no mother could be fonder of Gladdy than Mrs. Hodges was . 
I was lucky in lots of ways , no doubt about it . 
Especially in the way Gladdy had turned out . 
Growing up without a mother from the time she was three -- it was n't a good thing for a child , even knowing the kind of mother Alice had been . 
But I must n't start on Alice . 
She is a closed book , a picture I keep on my bureau , but never look at . 
If she 'd kept on as she 'd been going , the story I 'd told Gladdy would probably have been true by now , anyhow As usual , Gladdy 's bright smile greeted me at the breakfast table . 
Her first class was n't until ten , but she always got up to have breakfast with me . 
It made me feel good and knowing that she 'd decided , all on her own , to go to college right here in town made me feel good , too . 
Oh , I knew that I could n't give myself all the credit for her decision . 
I had a feeling that young Pete Michelson , the most promising intern at Fairview , had something to do with it , too . 
She 'd been out with Pete the night before and her gay chatter about their date lightened my mood a little . 
But once I was alone again , driving to the hospital , the heaviness returned . 
If she and Pete were really getting serious , I 'd have to do some hard thinking . 
Should I tell him the truth about Alice ? ? 
Did he have a right to know the secret I 'd kept from Gladdy all these years ? ? 
The boys were already waiting in the corridor outside my office when I got to Fairview . 
Two interns and Dick Ishii , the other resident . 
I 'm Chief of Medicine here and this morning would start like all others , with me taking the boys on the rounds . 
Pete was down on Seven , Dick told me , and he 'd meet us there . 
There was n't anything of special interest that morning , no one sicker than they should have been . 
Pete came to meet us when we stepped out of the elevator on Seven -- he 'd had a case of post-operative shock , but it was all taken care of now . 
Seven is a women 's floor and , as it happened , not very busy right then . 
When we 'd finished our regular rounds , Pete pointed me toward the small ward at the end of the floor . 
" Got a new one in last night " , he said . 
" I have n't seen her yet , but I hear she 's a lulu " ! ! 
I was n't surprised . 
The ward was a small one , four beds , kept reserved for female alcoholics . 
We did n't get many at Fairview and they were never pretty sights . 
It was thought wiser to keep them segregated from the patients in the regular charity ward . 
The moment I walked in , the whole miserable feeling of the day seemed to focus on the woman in the bed . 
They 'd cleaned her up some , of course , and she 'd pretty much slept off her drunk . 
But there was something about her -- and I felt my lips forming a name . 
Alice But this woman 's name was Rose Bancroft ! ! 
I looked at the chart for reassurance . 
Yes , Rose Bancroft , diagnosis : acute alcoholism . 
She looked about sixty , though I recalled that the chart gave her age as forty-four . 
An ugly scar disfigured the somewhat familiar puffy face , already marred by the tell-tale network of broken red veins that heavy drinkers carry . 
Her coarse hair was two-colored -- bleached blonde and its real , dirty gray . 
Oh , could it be ? ? 
No , no it was an unfortunate resemblance , that was all it was , and I turned to Dick , forcing myself to put my disquiet out of my mind . 
In a low voice , Dick filled us in she 'd been picked up downtown , passed out in the doorway . 
Although quiet when they brought her in , she 'd suddenly turned violent and had to be knocked out . 
It was the old story . 
We 'd keep her a day or two , and the AA people would talk to her . 
But if she was n't interested , she 'd just go back to the same life she 'd left . 
Turning toward the patient again , I -- I ca n't describe what happened to me then , except to say that I felt sick . 
I tell you , it took every ounce of control I had to be able to speak . 
" Now , Miss -- or is it Mrs. Bancroft " ? ? 
I never liked going straight into an examination with patients -- it relaxes them , I 've always thought , to chat first . 
This was one time I 'd have gladly broken my own rule , but habit was too strong . 
" Hey " ! ! 
Her voice was flat and dull . 
But those penetrating eyes -- I had to turn my head away . 
It was then that I saw what the drawn-back covers revealed . 
There were bloodspots on the sheet . 
" What 's this " ? ? 
I asked . 
" Your period " ? ? 
She shook her head . 
" I been spotting a little now and then " , she said quietly , no emotion in her voice . 
" Have you spoken to a doctor about it " ? ? 
Once again , there was a negative shake . 
I told Miss Groggins to move her down the hall where we had an examining table . 
" Better do a Papanicolaou " , I told Pete . 
It was only a few moments before Miss Groggins had her in the proper position for a vaginal , but I could n't see anything wrong on gross examination . 
Pete stood by with a slide and took the smear , sent it down to the lab with a request for the test . 
That done , I told Miss Groggins to take her patient back to bed and again put her out of my mind . 
I was busy the rest of the day . 
Late in the afternoon , I was up on Seven again . 
One of my private patients was being admitted and I went in to see her settled . 
On my way to the elevator , I ran into Pete . 
" I 've got the results on the Bancroft smear test " , he said . 
" There 's something there , all right . 
Class Three , they said . 
Do you want to talk to her , Doctor " ? ? 
" Well " -- I did n't -- I did n't ever want to see that woman again . 
But that was ridiculous , of course . 
" All right . 
We 'll do a D. and C. and get her permission for a hysterectomy . 
Maybe it 's nothing , maybe it 's intraepithelial or in situ -- ca n't take any chances " . 
" If you can keep her here that long " , Pete said wryly . 
" Groggins tells me she 's started badgering already , wants to get out . 
Wants to get to her booze , I guess " . 
I grimaced in distaste . 
" Well , better see what I can do " . 
We 'd been standing right outside Miss Bancroft 's door and as I went to turn the knob to enter , I was surprised to find that the door was slightly ajar . 
But she seemed to be dozing and in any case , we 'd been talking in low tones . 
Her eyes opened as soon as she heard me , though , and once again , I felt an inward shiver . 
" I sure ca n't complain about the service in this place " , she said . 
" I just got through seeing one of you guys . 
What do you want " ? ? 
There was something almost insulting in her tone , but I disregarded it . 
" I 've just been talking to Dr. Michelson " , I said . 
" We 'd like you to have a dilatation and curettage . 
That 's quite minor , nothing to worry about . 
But we would like your permission to do -- that is , to go further if it proves necessary " . 
" No " . 
It was flat , definite . 
" Suppose you let me explain . 
Actually , I rather doubt that we 'll have to do this . 
Even if we do , you 'll be out of here in a week , probably " . 
I was sure that was the difficulty -- she just did n't want to stay here , where she could n't get to the liquor . 
" No " . 
I looked at her in amazement . 
I 'd had patients who 'd refused surgery before , of course , but never one who did n't show , in one way or another , the reason why . 
Mostly , it was fear , but this woman 's voice did n't tremble and her hands were still on the coverlet . 
" Will you tell me why " ? ? 
I asked . 
She smiled , a smile without humor . 
" You should n't tell your little secrets outside of the patient 's door " , she said . 
" I 've got cancer , have n't I " ? ? 
She went on , disregarding my protests . 
" I 'm not going to be one of your guinea pigs . 
Let your pupils learn on someone else , Doctor . 
Just let me die in peace " . 
I stared at her , almost speechless . 
Her little speech was totally out of character with the sort of person I thought she was . 
Even her voice had taken on a more cultivated tone . 
This was someone who 'd come down in the world , I thought . 
A long , long way down . 
Again there was something familiar about her , something -- " You have n't got cancer " , I said as strongly as I could . 
" I do n't know what you heard that would make you think so , but I assure you I do n't even know myself , so how can you be so sure ? ? 
And even if " -- " Do n't give me a lot of talk , Joe " . 
I gaped at her . 
She could have found out my first name , of course -- that would n't be difficult . 
But there was that something , some echo in the way she spoke . 
She was watching me intently , a funny little half-smile on her lips . 
" Surprised , baby ? ? 
Guess I 've changed , have n't I ? ? 
But you have n't changed much , Joe " . 
I knew then , knew with a heart-stopping shock . 
" Alice " -- I stammered through dry lips . 
" Alice , for goodness sake " -- " Alice " , she echoed mockingly . 
" What 's the matter , Joe , you scared of me ? ? 
Think I 'm going to make you introduce a drunk as your wife ? ? 
Well , do n't worry . 
Just let me outta here " -- " But why did you come back " ? ? 
I 'd found my voice . 
" Where have you been all these years " ? ? 
She shrugged . 
" Here and there . 
As for coming back here -- well , I 'll tell you the truth , I did n't even know where I was when I came to . 
The last thing I remember is a bar in San Diego " -- The way she spoke , her flat acceptance of her alcoholic blackout , made me shudder . 
And this was Gladdy 's mother ! ! 
" I never asked you for any favors , Joe " , she went on , " but I 'm asking one now . 
Let me outta here ! ! 
You doctors are all alike -- all you want is to cut up people and what 's the good ? ? 
No , I want out , Joe " ! ! 
I looked at the pathetic wreck of a woman before me . 
Let her out , let her out -- that would be the solution , would n't it ? ? 
What she 'd said was true -- in all these years , she 'd never asked for anything from me . 
If I let her go , she 'd disappear once more . 
And Gladdy would be safe ! ! 
