" They make us conformists look good " . 
" That 's a peculiar way to think " . 
It was n't just the obnoxious birds that had ruffled her own feathers , of course ; ; she knew that . 
It was Jim 's " little " sister Myra , the unreliable , irresponsible , forever flyaway , Myra . 
She 's a year older than I am , Lucy told herself . 
" Come , come " , Jim said , jollying Lucy a little . 
" I love you . 
Susan ready " ? ? 
Lucy listened . 
Obviously , Susan was not . 
Upstairs , busy feet , showering like raindrops , pattered around her room . 
Susan would be visiting her grandmother for only a few days , but even at seven she was a prudent soul ; ; she always packed for a lifetime , just in case . 
" Not yet . 
Every doll in the house must be going with her " . 
" She 'd better step on it . 
It 's a long way to Websterville " . 
Jim 's fine young face was an expressive one , too ; ; as he looked at her , it registered anxiety . 
" You know " , he said . 
" Myra wanted me to thank you for taking Cathy . 
It 'll be only a couple of weeks before she finds a home for them in Paris -- but even so , she wants you to know that she 's awfully grateful " . 
Lucy did not believe him ; ; Myra appreciated nothing . 
Jim had put the thanks in his sister 's mouth . 
" Darling " -- she said , and the single word mingled love and exasperation in an equal blend . 
" She should have told me herself . 
And will it be only a couple of weeks ? ? 
Remember what happened the last time " ? ? 
Leaving Cathy with them , Myra had gone out to the Coast for a supposedly brief visit ; ; but she had stayed all winter , and Cathy had stayed all winter too -- with them . 
Lucy suspected that Myra would never have come home if Gregg , Myra 's husband , had n't gone out to fetch her . 
" That was an awfully long two weeks " . 
For an otherwise silent moment , Jim 's keys jingled nervously in his pocket . 
" But she promised -- This will be different " , he said at last . 
" You 've got to admit she was smart to scare up this fine government job over there -- she 'll get a home for herself and Cathy in no time . 
You 'll see , Myra 's settling down " . 
On the defensive , he added , " I wish you 'd think what it must be like for her to be without Greg , to be a new widow , a young widow " . 
" It depends on the widow " . 
Lucy had an idea that Myra loved it . 
And not for one moment did she believe that Myra had settled down . 
It seemed to Lucy that all their married life , she and Jim had been doing nothing but rescue his sister from the constant crises that were her way of life . 
Remembering that succession of disasters , she now considered Cathy , an ominous child-cloud on her horizon . 
It was not that she disliked Cathy . 
The youngster drew her , troubled her depths ; ; whenever Lucy saw her , she tried , without noise or fuss , to give her the warmth she had never had from Myra . 
But Cathy was Myra 's responsibility , not hers . 
" I would n't even be surprised " , she said unhappily , " if Myra tried to leave her with us forever " . 
Myra loved big cities ; ; thousands of miles away -- in Paris , of all places -- she might forget she had ever been a mother . 
Lucy knew her too well to find it impossible . 
" That 's a horrible thing to accuse her of " ! ! 
Jim was so indignant it was obvious that no matter what he said , he too had seen the looming specter of a forever-Cathy . 
He went to the foot of the stairs and shouted up , fiercely , " Susan ! ! 
Susan ! ! 
Get moving " ! ! 
A startled piping sound returned . 
" Do n't yell at Susan " , Lucy said . 
Was it only a few nights ago that they had been standing together in front of the house looking at the moon-washed river ? ? 
Their arms around each other , they had been talking of the present and the future ; ; their talk and their feeling had been as deep and warm , as steeped in light , as the air around them . 
Then , from within the still , sleeping house , the telephone had rung ; ; Myra , with her news , was on the other end of the line . 
Jim turned back from the stairway and looked at her . 
His dark brows , which had been lowered in anger , smoothed . 
" Please " , he said . 
" There is n't a chance of Myra 's letting anything like that happen . 
Let 's stay friends " . 
But they were n't just friends , Lucy thought ; ; they were husband and wife , and Myra had no right muddling and chilling their marriage . 
The only thing that had ever come between them was that worthless , selfish sister of his . 
Lucy was sick of it . 
" Well , at last " , she said , because Susan was clattering down the stairs . 
Susan looked like an overwhelmed baby nurse ; ; her arms were straining with a burden of dolls . 
" I 'm ready " , she announced . 
" Do you need that big bundle " ? ? 
Jim said . 
His voice had sharp edges , as though he knew very well Lucy and he were not friends at the moment . 
" All that junk " ? ? 
Susan stared at him with hurt blue eyes that gushed an instant grief ; ; to her , each of her dolls was a real person with a living heart . 
" Now , now " , Lucy said , approaching Susan with a handkerchief , mopping skillfully . 
" Your father did n't mean it , Susan " . 
She gave Jim a quick , shape-up look of warning . 
" She 'll take every one of them " . 
Jim groaned , but he lifted Susan 's suitcase and said , in a gentler tone , " Sure -- the entire thousand . 
And when you get back from Grandma 's , Cathy will be here to play with you . 
Nice " ? ? 
" No " , Susan said , grappling with her outsized armload of dolls with a Scrooge-like effect . 
And at this point , Lucy thought , there should be a lecture on little cousins ' sharing dolls -- but she could sympathize with Susan ; ; there ought to be a limit to sharing , too . 
That was one more reason she did n't look forward to Cathy 's visit , short or long ; ; the last one had been a Lilliputian war . 
She suspected that Cathy had been competing with Susan for attention that she had never had . 
" Well " , Jim said , out of the silence , " let 's get going , dolls and all " . 
When the car , with Susan 's hands waving wildly from the rear window , disappeared down the driveway , Lucy stood looking after its pale dust . 
The day was brilliant around her -- flower-scented , crisp with breeze -- yet her inner turmoil darkened it . 
She had let Jim go with a chilly good-by , a chillier kiss . 
She was sorry , and angry at herself , because never in their life together had she done that . 
She turned and began to walk toward the house . 
At the feeding station , the raffish group of cowbirds again bobbed and gobbled over the ground , but now , gorgeous among them , was a beautiful red cardinal , radiant in its feathered vestments . 
The handsome bird was solitary ; ; its mate must be at home , silently guarding their nest . 
She had better stay there , Lucy thought ; ; the sly female cowbirds took instant advantage of nests without sentinels . 
Well , Lucy ? ? 
She said to herself , abandoning the cardinals and the cowbirds . 
She had a day of things to do ; ; among them , she had to prepare the guest room . 
How long would it be occupied ? ? 
She wondered , with a baffled feeling of helplessness . 
As long as the unscrupulous Myra chose ? ? 
For a moment , her mind returned again to the strange , flying world of birds , and she said to herself . 
It is n't only birds that dump their children in other people 's nests . 
In the sunshine of late afternoon , Lucy stood looking at the ready guest room . 
There were new yellow curtains , bright as a child 's life ought to be , a new bedspread , lively with hopping rabbits , and hanging from the ceiling was an airy Mother Goose Mobile , spinning slowly in the breeze . 
A row of little hangers waited for a child 's clothes in the neatly empty closet ; ; since Myra had always put most of Greg 's money on her own back , Lucy suspected that no more than a few of that long row would be needed . 
The closet was faintly fragrant with lavender , and as Lucy shut the door an unhappy memory slipped into her mind , like a lavender ghost : Greg 's house , on the day he was buried , and the child , pale , silent , baffled , watching the funeral guests with panicky eyes . 
Many times since his death that memory had worried and troubled her . 
Out in the hall , the upstairs phone shrilled , and the small ghost vanished . 
When she picked up the receiver , her mother 's cheerful voice was there . 
" Websterville Junction calling " , she said . 
" I just thought I 'd let you know . 
Myra dropped Cathy this morning , and Jim picked Cathy up and left Susan a few hours ago . 
I 'd have phoned sooner but I 've been busy " . 
" I can imagine " ! ! 
Susan was an active character ; ; for Mother to be able to call , Susan must be napping now , surrounded by her multitude of dolls . 
Lucy drew out the chair and sat down ; ; she relaxed a little , and some of the tension went out of her . 
You could think yourself as grown up as Methuselah , yet the maternal voice still kept its comforting magic . 
" How was Cathy " ? ? 
" Subdued . 
But Myra was the merriest widow I ever saw " . 
On her way to the airport , on her way to Paris -- you bet , Lucy said to herself . 
" I 've been fixing up the guest room for Cathy " . 
There was a momentary pause , and then her mother said , " How long is she supposed to stay " ? ? 
" Just for a couple of weeks , till Myra finds a place for them " . 
" Well " -- This time there was a long silence , while the telephone hummed faintly with a voiceless life . 
Puzzled , Lucy stared at the flowered wallpaper ; ; her mother was forthright ; ; she was not usually given to mysterious silences . 
Was she thinking along the same lines Lucy was -- that it was quite possible Cathy might be left with her for good ? ? 
" You mean once Myra gets to Paris " ? ? 
Once the soft , pretty moth found the bright light she had always wanted ? ? 
Suddenly , seekingly , Lucy asked , " Mother , do you know something I do n't know " ? ? 
Again there was that curious pause , and then her mother said , " I guess I do . 
Just before Myra left -- She was saying good-by to Cathy , and she did n't realize I was near " . 
She hesitated , as though hunting over words and ways of putting them . 
" Cathy was in tears , of course , and I heard Myra say , ' Now be good , and at Christmastime I 'll send you a wonderful present from Paris ' " . 
Shocked speechless , Lucy sat there . 
Then she jumped to her feet , the elastic phone cord uncoiling like a black snake . 
" Christmastime ! ! 
" Then it was no bogey she had dreamed up ; ; it was only too true . 
Myra had no intention whatever of sending for Cathy in two weeks . 
For a moment , anger darkened the hallway about her , and when she found her voice , anger thickened it . 
" That does it " ! ! 
She said . 
" I 'll keep Cathy for two weeks . 
Then , if Myra does nothing about fetching her , I 'll pack her right back to her mother -- if I have to take her myself " ! ! 
Her hand tightened on the receiver . 
" And that 's what I 'm going to tell Jim " . 
For Lucy , the day 's nagging to-and-fro had come to an abrupt end . 
As she hung up , she saw through the hall 's open window the purple-black flying of the cowbirds ' wings , and heard their grotesque singing . 
Cowbird Myra ! ! 
She 's not going to get away with it . 
Cathy is tired , Lucy thought , watching them come slowly up the path . 
The child 's thin legs were plodding . 
She trudged along slowly , both hands clutching a tired teddy bear . 
She was at the moment just a small , walking package , being delivered to her aunt 's and uncle 's house . 
Unlike Susan , she was traveling light ; ; the worn teddy bear , a tiny suitcase that Jim carried , and the clothes she wore , were all she had . 
Lucy glancing at the miniature case , knew there would not be enough in it for the shortest of stays ; ; they would have to buy things for her . 
She opened the door . 
