Unimpressed , the dog plopped on the sand . 
Quint could n't blame Maggie for disbelieving . 
For eleven days they 'd done the same thing , leaving the cottage quietly before breakfast , before Esperanza Beach got jammed with tourists and beach balls and show-offy lifeguards . 
The swirling sand made Quint 's limp more pronounced . 
They walked slowly past the sherbet-colored cottages -- eleven lemon , nine mint , seven orange -- around the curve to a deserted stand with an " Eats " sign jiggling in the wind . 
Now they were in friendly territory . 
Nobody around . 
Nothing but sand and a ridge of rocks sloping jaggedly to the water 's edge . 
His rock was to the right of a V-shaped inlet , a big , brown , lumpy rock trailing seaweed whiskers . 
His rock was special because no one on the beach could see him here . 
Here he was enclosed and safe . 
( If a dragon or a sea monster came along , did n't he have a red Swiss hunting knife on his belt -- ten blades and a corkscrew ? ? 
) Here was a perfect place to lie down and make believe . 
He was Canute controlling the waves . 
He was a knight of the Round Table , " Sir Quintus the Brave " , slaying evil spirits and banshees and vampires and witches with warty noses . 
( One good thing about a suit of armor , his leg would n't show . 
) He was the first astronaut on the moon , chosen because of his small size and intrepid nature . 
He was six feet one like his father , with big hands and a hairy chest , a man the weak and persecuted would turn to . 
Fearless . 
Every night when he wanted a drink of water , did n't he practice being fearless by not turning on the bathroom light ? ? 
A dark bathroom can be pretty scary , and he 'd creep back to bed , proud of himself , thinking : Tomorrow , for sure , I 'll go down to the rock and keep my promise to Dad . 
He had n't intended to make the promise . 
It happened two weeks ago , the night before his father left on a business trip to South America . 
Every piece of the nightmare was clear , in place ; ; and when he woke up , his father was saying , " Stop screaming , Quint . 
It 's all right . 
Stop shaking " . 
He could remember the feel of his father 's big hands , the thump of his father 's heart sending out signals -- regular , like radar . 
" Let 's talk about the beach . 
Son . 
While I 'm gone you get brown and fat as a pig , hear ? ? 
Look , I can put two fingers between the cords in the back of your neck . 
Dr. Fortman says swimming would help your leg . 
He says you 're limping more than you need to " . 
" How does he know ? ? 
Big dumb nut . 
He never had polio " . 
In the light from the bedside table his father looked so worried that the promise spilled out . 
" You just wait , Dad . 
When you get back I 'll probly be swimming better than Victoria . 
Wait and see , Dad " . 
Victoria was fourteen months younger than Quint , a head taller , and could lick any boy or girl on the beach . 
He called her " Fatso " . 
She called him " Stuck-up -- that 's why nobody plays with you , Mister Stuck-up " . 
Or , what was worse , she prayed for him out loud at bedtime : " Please , Lord Gord , please give my brother the strength to go swimming like he promised " . 
" She 's got a nerve " . 
Quint said now to the clouds . 
Strength began to zip up and down his chest . 
He felt strong as a giant . 
He unlaced his high brown shoes and took off the metal brace on his leg . 
He wadded his sweat shirt into a ball and stripped down to his swimming trunks . 
" Goolick , goooolick " , creaked a sea gull . 
" Aw , shut up " , he said . 
He stood on the rock , a skinny , dignified boy surrounded by the ocean . 
The wind bored a hole between his shoulder blades , and when he looked at the choppy waves coming and going and crossing each other he could see his head down there , bleeding , wedged between the rocks and the waves . 
I ca n't go in . 
I 'm scared of the nightmare . 
Shivering , he put on his clothes . 
And shivering with shame , he crawled to the narrow end of the rock and spat into the water . 
" Watch it , big shot " , a hoarse voice yelled back . 
She was holding on to his rock with one hand . 
She smelled of peppermints . 
She wore a bathing suit like his mother 's , no straps on the shouders . 
" Why did n't you duck " ? ? 
He snapped . 
" This is my rock " . 
" Is n't " . 
" Is " . 
" Is n't " . 
" Is " . 
She was sore as a boil . 
" Ever hear of squatter 's rights " ? ? 
" Sure . 
They started with the Kansas-Nebraska Bill of eighteen " -- " Mister Big Britches , are n't you " ? ? 
" I 'm Mark Gordon Peters the Fifth . 
They call me Quint " . 
" Then why do n't you stop squinting " ? ? 
" I said Quint . 
That 's short for Quintus . 
Quintus in Latin means " -- " I can speak both kinds of Latin , smart aleck " . 
Her cough sounded like cloth ripping . 
" You should n't smoke so much " , he said , unconsciously imitating Victoria 's holier-than-thou voice . 
" I do n't smoke " . 
She was horrified . 
" Do you " ? ? 
" Hell , yes " . 
Not having said " hell " before , he stumbled a bit before gathering momentum . 
" Sometimes eleven , fourteen a day " . 
" If I was your mama , I 'd wop your tail off " . 
" My mother never wops me . 
I 've got this leg brace " . 
She seemed so unimpressed that he was obliged to roll up his blue jeans so she could see his brace . 
" Dingy-looking " , was what she said . 
" Why do n't you paint it red and white like a barber pole " ? ? 
" Because maybe I wo n't have to wear it always . 
Dr. Fortman says if I exercise my leg more , maybe I can use a cane when I 'm big " . 
She spouted a mouthful of water into the air . 
" A cane 's mighty handy . 
Someone 's walking past , you want to stop him , zoooop , snag him around the neck with the crook in your cane . 
Or say a waiter brings you a bowl of soup with a dead fly in it -- all you got to do is bannnnnng , stooooomp your cane on the floor . 
Hey , will you look at that " ? ? 
Maggie had shaken himself awake and was licking the sand off his stubby whiskers and his long plume of a tail . 
" That 's some dog . 
What kind " ? ? 
" Part collie , part wire-haired terrier " . 
Quint glared . 
He always did when people asked . 
" Holy mackerel , that 's the most unique dog I ever saw " , she said firmly . 
" His real name 's DiMaggio , only we call him Maggie because he has to take tranquilizers . 
He 's braver than he looks . 
He 's been sick lately . 
Last Tuesday he went on a ham jag " . 
" A what " ? ? 
He would have told her , but Victoria was yodeling . 
That meant " Mama wants you Quint . 
Come home or I 'll come find you " . 
" I gotta go . 
Even though this is my rock , you can use it sometimes . 
I come early in the morning " . 
" So do I . 
See you around , Mister Squint " . 
That was how they started being friends . 
They met next morning and all the mornings thereafter . 
Same time , early , before the fog burned off , because she did n't like the sun ; ; it made her blister . 
Her name was Sabella , and the strip of seaweed around her neck was an emerald necklace the King gave her as a token of his undying love . 
" You going to marry the King " ? ? 
" No . 
He 's got a long beard and picks his teeth with a fork . 
My hair is what he 's nuts about . 
Naturally curly hair runs in my family . 
Personally , I prefer straight hair like yours , but as they say on the Continent , ' What can one do ' " ? ? 
" Which continent " ? ? 
" Name one , I been there " . 
Japan , she said , smelled pugh because people let dead fish lie on the beaches till the fish got hard as rocks ; ; then they scraped off the mold and made fish soup . 
Pugh . 
Camels in Tripoli had harelips . 
Near Galway the tinkers drove their caravans down to the beach and sang and drank and fought all night . 
As for dancing -- holy mackerel , he ought to see the gypsies in Jerez ; ; they danced on the sand till your blood got hot and danced with them . 
" Really " . 
Quint smothered a yawn . 
She made better pictures than any book he 'd read , but he did n't say so . 
Artfully , as the days went by , he found occasion to tell her that his father had won the Navy Cross in the Korean War ; ; that his baby sister could spit up through her nose when she felt like it ; ; that he personally had an IQ of 141 and was currently reading the Mushr to Ozon volume of the encyclopedia . 
" Books are for schnooks " . 
She skipped a piece of water at him and laughed , a funny , hoarse laugh he liked to hear . 
Nobody ever appreciated his jokes as much as Sabella . 
( " What did one tonsil say to the other tonsil ? ? 
Let 's get dressed up -- the doctor 's taking us out tonight " . 
And " What time did the Chinaman go to the dentist ? ? 
Tooth-hurty " . 
) Encouraged by her giggles he imitated Maggie who was crazy about ham . 
He described the ham decorated with pineapple and cherries , cooling on the porch . 
He snuck up on the ham like Maggie , gumming it with soft , stumpy teeth , then panting with thirst , lapping up the water in the lagoon , swelling up like a balloon , staggering home to be sick , while his mother said , " That does it . 
That dog has to go " . 
" Say , you 're quite a comic " , Sabella said admiringly . 
" Ever thought about going on the stage " ? ? 
He had n't . 
But it was such a nice thought that he nodded his head . 
" Either that or a veterinarian " . 
" Better make up your mind , son " , Sabella said . 
" You ca n't serve cod and salmon " . 
Sometimes they argued . 
She said sharks have no bones and shrimp swam backward . 
His encylopedia agreed with Sabella . 
Next morning he tied a bunch of sea daisies with string and threw them across the V-shaped inlet to the rock where she was swimming around . 
Boy , could she catch ! ! 
Like Willie Mays in the outfield . 
" Nobody gave me flowers before . 
Thank you , Quint " . 
Her face turned pink with pleasure and a smothered cough . 
" You can always tell a real gentleman -- they got a certain je ne say quok " . 
Sometimes they did n't talk at all . 
He daydreamed on the rock while she swam and splashed around . 
Once when she asked why he never went swimming and he answered , " Do n't feel like it " , he was tempted to tell her about being scared . 
But Victoria began yodeling just then and he went home , carrying Sabella in the back of his head , not thinking about her , just knowing she was there , smiling , smelling of peppermints . 
As for his promise -- oh , he had plenty of time , buckets of time . 
Wednesday morning it happened . 
They were eating breakfast . 
" We beseech thee , Lord Gord , to bless this food " -- that was Victoria saying grace while the baby sprayed raisin toast on her plastic bib . 
Same old breakfast till the phone rang , making his mother 's voice shake with excitement . 
" Your Daddy 's in San Francisco " , she told them . 
" He says he 'll be here on the one-o'clock plane . 
Fifteen days early -- is n't that wonderful " ? ? 
" Yeah , keen " . 
A cave seemed to be opening in Quint 's stomach . 
" Children , we 'll have to get organized . 
The baby can have an early nap . 
Victoria , I want you to -- " Quint closed the screen door quietly so Maggie would n't be scared . 
" Hurry up , we 're late " , he said , noticing with a chill how gray the sky was this morning , the fog like a rope along the horizon , the choppy waves sending off sheets of blue and Kool-Aid green . 
The cave in his stomach hurt . 
He had to go into the water . 
He 'd tell Sabella about the nightmare . 
It had started two years ago when he was in an iron lung . 
What caused it , he did n't know . 
The metal collar gagging his neck ? ? 
Sweating so much ? ? 
The unbearable weight on his chest ? ? 
All of it together meant drowning . 
The first time the nurse took him out of the lung , she said if he got frightened , she 'd put him back for a second . 
